,id,title,context,question,answer
0,1,Nocardiosis,"Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis). It is due to infection by a bacterium of the genus Nocardia, most commonly Nocardia asteroides or Nocardia brasiliensis.\nIt is most common in adult males, especially those with a weakened immune system. In patients with brain nocardia infection, mortality exceeds 80%; in other forms, mortality is 50%, even with appropriate therapy.It is one of several conditions that have been called \""the great imitator\"". Cutaneous nocardiosis commonly occurs in immunocompetent hosts and is caused in 80% of cases by Nocardia brasiliensis",What is pulmonary nocardiosis?,Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis)
1,2,Nocardiosis,"Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis). It is due to infection by a bacterium of the genus Nocardia, most commonly Nocardia asteroides or Nocardia brasiliensis.\nIt is most common in adult males, especially those with a weakened immune system. In patients with brain nocardia infection, mortality exceeds 80%; in other forms, mortality is 50%, even with appropriate therapy.It is one of several conditions that have been called \""the great imitator\"". Cutaneous nocardiosis commonly occurs in immunocompetent hosts and is caused in 80% of cases by Nocardia brasiliensis",What percentage of cases are caused by Nocardia brasiliensis?,80% of  cases are caused by Nocardia brasiliensis
2,3,Small intestine cancer,"Small intestine cancer is a cancer of the small intestine. It is relatively rare compared to other gastrointestinal malignancies such as gastric cancer (stomach cancer) and colorectal cancer.Small intestine cancer can be subdivided into duodenal cancer (the first part of the small intestine) and cancer of the jejunum and ileum (the latter two parts of the small intestine). Duodenal cancer has more in common with stomach cancer, while cancer of the jejunum and ileum have more in common with colorectal cancer. Five-year survival rates are 65%.",What is the 5-year survival rate of small intestine cancer?,Five-year survival rates  of small intestine cancer is 65%.
3,4,Amblyopia,"Amblyopia, also called lazy eye, is a disorder of sight in which the brain fails to fully process input from one eye and over time favors the other eye. It results in decreased vision in an eye that typically appears normal in other aspects. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. This can occur from poor alignment of the eyes (strabismic), an eye being irregularly shaped such that focusing is difficult, one eye being more nearsighted or farsighted than the other (refractive), or clouding of the lens of an eye (deprivational). After the underlying cause is addressed, vision is not restored right away, as the mechanism also involves the brain. Amblyopia can be difficult to detect, so vision testing is recommended for all children around the ages of four to five.Early detection improves treatment success. Glasses may be all the treatment needed for some children. If this is not sufficient, treatments which encourage or force the child to use the weaker eye are used. This is done by either using a patch or putting atropine in the stronger eye. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. In adults, the disorder is estimated to affect 1\u20135% of the population. While treatment improves vision, it does not typically restore it to normal in the affected eye. Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s. The condition may make people ineligible to be pilots or police officers",What is the most common cause of amblyopia?,The most common cause of amblyopia is decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults
4,5,Amblyopia,"Amblyopia, also called lazy eye, is a disorder of sight in which the brain fails to fully process input from one eye and over time favors the other eye. It results in decreased vision in an eye that typically appears normal in other aspects. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. This can occur from poor alignment of the eyes (strabismic), an eye being irregularly shaped such that focusing is difficult, one eye being more nearsighted or farsighted than the other (refractive), or clouding of the lens of an eye (deprivational). After the underlying cause is addressed, vision is not restored right away, as the mechanism also involves the brain. Amblyopia can be difficult to detect, so vision testing is recommended for all children around the ages of four to five.Early detection improves treatment success. Glasses may be all the treatment needed for some children. If this is not sufficient, treatments which encourage or force the child to use the weaker eye are used. This is done by either using a patch or putting atropine in the stronger eye. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. In adults, the disorder is estimated to affect 1\u20135% of the population. While treatment improves vision, it does not typically restore it to normal in the affected eye. Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s. The condition may make people ineligible to be pilots or police officers",When was Amblyopia first described?,Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s
5,6,Hepatitis B,"Hepatitis B is an infectious disease caused by the Hepatitis B virus (HBV) that affects the liver; it is a type of viral hepatitis. It can cause both acute and chronic infection.Many people have no symptoms during an initial infection. For others, symptoms may appear 30 to 180 days after becoming infected and can include a rapid onset of sickness with nausea, vomiting, yellowish skin, fatigue, dark urine, and abdominal pain. Symptoms during acute infection typically last for a few weeks, though some people may feel sick for up to six months. Deaths resulting from acute stage HBV infections are rare. An HBV infection lasting longer than six months is usually considered chronic. The likelihood of developing chronic hepatitis B is higher for those who are infected with HBV at a younger age. About 90% of those infected during or shortly after birth develop chronic hepatitis B, while less than 10% of those infected after the age of five develop chronic cases. Most of those with chronic disease have no symptoms; however, cirrhosis and liver cancer eventually develop in about 25% of those with chronic HBV.The virus is transmitted by exposure to infectious blood or body fluids. In areas where the disease is common, infection around the time of birth or from contact with other people's blood during childhood are the most frequent methods by which hepatitis B is acquired. In areas where the disease is rare, intravenous drug use and sexual intercourse are the most frequent routes of infection. Other risk factors include working in healthcare, blood transfusions, dialysis, living with an infected person, travel in countries with high infection rates, and living in an institution. Tattooing and acupuncture led to a significant number of cases in the 1980s; however, this has become less common with improved sterilization. The hepatitis B viruses cannot be spread by holding hands, sharing eating utensils, kissing, hugging, coughing, sneezing, or breastfeeding. The infection can be diagnosed 30 to 60 days after exposure. The diagnosis is usually confirmed by testing the blood for parts of the virus and for antibodies against the virus. It is one of five main hepatitis viruses: A, B, C, D, and E. During an initial infection, care is based on a person's symptoms. In those who develop chronic disease, antiviral medication such as tenofovir or interferon may be useful; however, these drugs are expensive. Liver transplantation is sometimes recommended for cases of cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma.Hepatitis B infection has been preventable by vaccination since 1982. As of 2022, the hepatitis B vaccine is between 98% and 100% effective in preventing infection. The vaccine is administered in several doses; after an initial dose, two or three more vaccine doses are required at a later time for full effect. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends infants receive the vaccine within 24 hours after birth when possible. National programs have made the hepatitis B vaccine available for infants in 190 countries as of the end of 2021. To further prevent infection, the WHO recommends testing all donated blood for hepatitis B before using it for transfusion. Using antiviral prophylaxis to prevent mother-to-child transmission is also recommended, as is following safe sex practices, including the use of condoms In 2016, the WHO set a goal of eliminating viral hepatitis as a threat to global public health by 2030. Achieving this goal would require the development of therapeutic treatments to cure chronic hepatitis B, as well as preventing its transmission and using vaccines to prevent new infections.An estimated 296 million people, or 3.8% of the global population, had chronic hepatitis B infections as of 2019. Another 1.5 million developed acute infections that year, and 820,000 deaths occurred as a result of HBV. Cirrhosis and liver cancer are responsible for most HBV-related deaths. The disease is most prevalent in Africa (affecting 7.5% of the continent\u2019s population) and in the Western Pacific region (5.9%). Infection rates are 1.5% in Europe and 0.5% in the Americas. According to some estimates, about a third of the world's population has been infected with hepatitis B at one point in their lives.",How is the HBV virus transmitted?,The HBV virus  is transmitted by exposure to infectious blood or body fluids
6,7,Lupus,"Lupus, technically known as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue in many parts of the body. Symptoms vary among people and may be mild to severe. Common symptoms include painful and swollen joints, fever, chest pain, hair loss, mouth ulcers, swollen lymph nodes, feeling tired, and a red rash which is most commonly on the face. Often there are periods of illness, called flares, and periods of remission during which there are few symptoms.The cause of SLE is not clear. It is thought to involve a combination of genetics and environmental factors. Among identical twins, if one is affected there is a 24% chance the other one will also develop the disease. Female sex hormones, sunlight, smoking, vitamin D deficiency, and certain infections are also believed to increase a person's risk. The mechanism involves an immune response by autoantibodies against a person's own tissues. These are most commonly anti-nuclear antibodies and they result in inflammation. Diagnosis can be difficult and is based on a combination of symptoms and laboratory tests. There are a number of other kinds of lupus erythematosus including discoid lupus erythematosus, neonatal lupus, and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus.There is no cure for SLE, but there are experimental and symptomatic treatments. Treatments may include NSAIDs, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants, hydroxychloroquine, and methotrexate. Although corticosteroids are rapidly effective, long-term use results in side effects. Alternative medicine has not been shown to affect the disease. Life expectancy is lower among people with SLE, but with modern treatment, 80-90% of patients can have a normal life span. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. While women with lupus have higher risk pregnancies, most are successful.Rate of SLE varies between countries from 20 to 70 per 100,000. Women of childbearing age are affected about nine times more often than men. While it most commonly begins between the ages of 15 and 45, a wide range of ages can be affected. Those of African, Caribbean, and Chinese descent are at higher risk than those of European descent. Rates of disease in the developing world are unclear",What is the most common cause of death for women with lupus?,The most common cause of death of women  with lupus is   cardiovascular disease
7,8,Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues,"Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (American English) or tumours of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (British English) are tumors that affect the blood, bone marrow, lymph, and lymphatic system. Because these tissues are all intimately connected through both the circulatory system and the immune system, a disease affecting one will often affect the others as well, making aplasia, myeloproliferation and lymphoproliferation (and thus the leukemias and the lymphomas) closely related and often overlapping problems.\nWhile uncommon in solid tumors, chromosomal translocations are a common cause of these diseases. This commonly leads to a different approach in diagnosis and treatment of hematological malignancies.\nHematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms (\""cancer\""), and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and/or oncology.  In some centers \""hematology/oncology\"" is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions (there are also surgical and radiation oncologists).  Not all hematological disorders are malignant (\""cancerous\""); these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist.\nHematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages:  myeloid and lymphoid cell lines.  The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes, erythrocytes, thrombocytes, macrophages and mast cells; the lymphoid cell line produces B, T, NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias, and myeloma are from the lymphoid line, while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin.\nA subgroup of them are more severe and are known as haematological malignancies (British English)/hematological malignancies (American English) or blood cancer. They may also be referred to as liquid tumors",What is a common cause of leukemias and lymphomas?,The common cause of leukemias and lymphomas is chromosomal translocations
8,9,Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues,"Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (American English) or tumours of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (British English) are tumors that affect the blood, bone marrow, lymph, and lymphatic system. Because these tissues are all intimately connected through both the circulatory system and the immune system, a disease affecting one will often affect the others as well, making aplasia, myeloproliferation and lymphoproliferation (and thus the leukemias and the lymphomas) closely related and often overlapping problems.\nWhile uncommon in solid tumors, chromosomal translocations are a common cause of these diseases. This commonly leads to a different approach in diagnosis and treatment of hematological malignancies.\nHematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms (\""cancer\""), and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and/or oncology.  In some centers \""hematology/oncology\"" is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions (there are also surgical and radiation oncologists).  Not all hematological disorders are malignant (\""cancerous\""); these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist.\nHematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages:  myeloid and lymphoid cell lines.  The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes, erythrocytes, thrombocytes, macrophages and mast cells; the lymphoid cell line produces B, T, NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias, and myeloma are from the lymphoid line, while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin.\nA subgroup of them are more severe and are known as haematological malignancies (British English)/hematological malignancies (American English) or blood cancer. They may also be referred to as liquid tumors",What are malignant neoplasms?,Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms
9,10,Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis,"Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by an abnormal accumulation of surfactant-derived lipoprotein compounds within the alveoli of the lung. The accumulated substances interfere with the normal gas exchange and expansion of the lungs, ultimately leading to difficulty breathing and a predisposition to developing lung infections. The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic) causes, although the most common cause is a primary autoimmune condition in an individual.",What is the most common cause of PAP in an individual?,"The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic)"
10,11,Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis,"Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by an abnormal accumulation of surfactant-derived lipoprotein compounds within the alveoli of the lung. The accumulated substances interfere with the normal gas exchange and expansion of the lungs, ultimately leading to difficulty breathing and a predisposition to developing lung infections. The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic) causes, although the most common cause is a primary autoimmune condition in an individual.",What is another type for hereditary PAP?,Another type for hereditary PAP is autoimmune PAP
11,12,Pulmonary hemorrhage,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli. When evident clinically, the condition is usually massive. The onset of pulmonary hemorrhage is characterized by a cough productive of blood (hemoptysis) and worsening of oxygenation leading to cyanosis. Treatment should be immediate and should include tracheal suction, oxygen, positive pressure ventilation, and correction of underlying abnormalities such as disorders of coagulation. A blood transfusion may be necessary",What is a pulmonary haemorrhagic condition?,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli"
12,13,Adult-onset Still's disease,"Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a form of Still's disease, a rare systemic autoinflammatory disease characterized by the classic triad of fevers, joint pain, and a distinctive salmon-colored bumpy rash. The disease is considered a diagnosis of exclusion. Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with this disorder. AOSD may present in a similar manner to other inflammatory diseases and to autoimmune diseases, which must be ruled out before making the diagnosis.\nPrognosis is usually favorable but manifestations of the disease affecting the lungs, heart, or kidneys may occasionally cause severe life-threatening complications. It is treated first with corticosteroids such as prednisone. Medications that block the action of interleukin-1, such as anakinra, can be effective treatments when standard steroid treatments are insufficient.Obvious similarities exist with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (also known as \""juvenile-onset Still's disease\""), and there is some evidence that the two conditions are closely related",What protein may be elevated with AOSD?,Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with AOSD
13,14,Adult-onset Still's disease,"Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a form of Still's disease, a rare systemic autoinflammatory disease characterized by the classic triad of fevers, joint pain, and a distinctive salmon-colored bumpy rash. The disease is considered a diagnosis of exclusion. Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with this disorder. AOSD may present in a similar manner to other inflammatory diseases and to autoimmune diseases, which must be ruled out before making the diagnosis.\nPrognosis is usually favorable but manifestations of the disease affecting the lungs, heart, or kidneys may occasionally cause severe life-threatening complications. It is treated first with corticosteroids such as prednisone. Medications that block the action of interleukin-1, such as anakinra, can be effective treatments when standard steroid treatments are insufficient.Obvious similarities exist with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (also known as \""juvenile-onset Still's disease\""), and there is some evidence that the two conditions are closely related",What is the first treatment for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis?,"The first treatment for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis is corticosteroids such as prednisone. Medications that block the action of interleukin-1, such as anakinra, can be effective treatments when standard steroid treatments are insufficient"
14,15,Lichen planus,"Lichen planus (LP) is a chronic inflammatory and immune-mediated disease that affects the skin, nails, hair, and mucous membranes. It is not an actual lichen, and is only named that because it looks like one. It is characterized by polygonal, flat-topped, violaceous papules and plaques with overlying, reticulated, fine white scale (Wickham's striae), commonly affecting dorsal hands, flexural wrists and forearms, trunk, anterior lower legs and oral mucosa. The hue may be gray-brown in people with darker skin. Although there is a broad clinical range of LP manifestations, the skin and oral cavity remain as the major sites of involvement. The cause is unknown, but it is thought to be the result of an autoimmune process with an unknown initial trigger. There is no cure, but many different medications and procedures have been used in efforts to control the symptoms.\nThe term lichenoid reaction (lichenoid eruption or lichenoid lesion) refers to a lesion of similar or identical histopathologic and clinical appearance to lichen planus (i.e., an area which resembles lichen planus, both to the naked eye and under a microscope). Sometimes dental materials or certain medications can cause a lichenoid reaction. They can also occur in association with graft versus host disease",What is the cause of LP thought to be?,"The cause of LP is unknown, but it is thought to be the result of an autoimmune process with an unknown initial trigger"
15,16,Lichen planus,"Lichen planus (LP) is a chronic inflammatory and immune-mediated disease that affects the skin, nails, hair, and mucous membranes. It is not an actual lichen, and is only named that because it looks like one. It is characterized by polygonal, flat-topped, violaceous papules and plaques with overlying, reticulated, fine white scale (Wickham's striae), commonly affecting dorsal hands, flexural wrists and forearms, trunk, anterior lower legs and oral mucosa. The hue may be gray-brown in people with darker skin. Although there is a broad clinical range of LP manifestations, the skin and oral cavity remain as the major sites of involvement. The cause is unknown, but it is thought to be the result of an autoimmune process with an unknown initial trigger. There is no cure, but many different medications and procedures have been used in efforts to control the symptoms.\nThe term lichenoid reaction (lichenoid eruption or lichenoid lesion) refers to a lesion of similar or identical histopathologic and clinical appearance to lichen planus (i.e., an area which resembles lichen planus, both to the naked eye and under a microscope). Sometimes dental materials or certain medications can cause a lichenoid reaction. They can also occur in association with graft versus host disease",What is the term for lichenoid eruption?,The term lichenoid reaction (lichenoid eruption or lichenoid lesion) refers to a lesion of similar or identical histopathologic
16,17,Perinatal asphyxia,"Perinatal asphyxia (also known as neonatal asphyxia or birth asphyxia) is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to a newborn infant that lasts long enough during the birth process to cause physical harm, usually to the brain. It is also the inability to establish and sustain adequate or spontaneous respiration upon delivery of the newborn. It remains a serious condition which causes significant mortality and morbidity. It is an emergency condition and requires adequate and quick resuscitation measures. Perinatal asphyxia is also an oxygen deficit from the 28th week of gestation to the first seven days following delivery. It is also an insult to the fetus or newborn due to lack of oxygen or lack of perfusion to various organs and may be associated with a lack of ventilation. In accordance with WHO, perinatal asphyxia is characterised by: profound metabolic acidosis, with a pH less than 7.20 on umbilical cord arterial blood sample, persistence of an APGAR score of 3 at the 5th minute,                                                           clinical neurologic sequelae in the immediate neonatal period, or evidence of multiorgan system dysfunction in the immediate neonatal period. Hypoxic damage can occur to most of the infant's organs (heart, lungs, liver, gut, kidneys), but brain damage is of most concern and perhaps the least likely to quickly or completely heal. In more pronounced cases, an infant will survive, but with damage to the brain manifested as either mental, such as developmental delay or intellectual disability, or physical, such as spasticity.\nIt results most commonly from antepartum causes like a drop in maternal blood pressure or some other substantial interference with blood flow to the infant's brain during delivery. This can occur due to inadequate circulation or perfusion, impaired respiratory effort, or inadequate ventilation. Perinatal asphyxia happens in 2 to 10 per 1000 newborns that are born at term, and more for those that are born prematurely. WHO estimates that 4 million neonatal deaths occur yearly due to birth asphyxia, representing 38% of deaths of children under 5 years of age.Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births. An infant with severe perinatal asphyxia usually has poor color (cyanosis), perfusion, responsiveness, muscle tone, and respiratory effort, as reflected in a low 5 minute Apgar score. Extreme degrees of asphyxia can cause cardiac arrest and death. If resuscitation is successful, the infant is usually transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit.\nThere has long been a scientific debate over whether newborn infants with asphyxia should be resuscitated with 100% oxygen or normal air. It has been demonstrated that high concentrations of oxygen lead to generation of oxygen free radicals, which have a role in reperfusion injury after asphyxia. Research by Ola Didrik Saugstad and others led to new international guidelines on newborn resuscitation in 2010, recommending the use of normal air instead of 100% oxygen.There is considerable controversy over the diagnosis of birth asphyxia due to medicolegal reasons. Because of its lack of precision, the term is eschewed in modern obstetrics.",What is perinatal asphyxia also known as?,Perinatal asphyxia also known as neonatal asphyxia'
17,18,Perinatal asphyxia,"Perinatal asphyxia (also known as neonatal asphyxia or birth asphyxia) is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to a newborn infant that lasts long enough during the birth process to cause physical harm, usually to the brain. It is also the inability to establish and sustain adequate or spontaneous respiration upon delivery of the newborn. It remains a serious condition which causes significant mortality and morbidity. It is an emergency condition and requires adequate and quick resuscitation measures. Perinatal asphyxia is also an oxygen deficit from the 28th week of gestation to the first seven days following delivery. It is also an insult to the fetus or newborn due to lack of oxygen or lack of perfusion to various organs and may be associated with a lack of ventilation. In accordance with WHO, perinatal asphyxia is characterised by: profound metabolic acidosis, with a pH less than 7.20 on umbilical cord arterial blood sample, persistence of an APGAR score of 3 at the 5th minute,                                                           clinical neurologic sequelae in the immediate neonatal period, or evidence of multiorgan system dysfunction in the immediate neonatal period. Hypoxic damage can occur to most of the infant's organs (heart, lungs, liver, gut, kidneys), but brain damage is of most concern and perhaps the least likely to quickly or completely heal. In more pronounced cases, an infant will survive, but with damage to the brain manifested as either mental, such as developmental delay or intellectual disability, or physical, such as spasticity.\nIt results most commonly from antepartum causes like a drop in maternal blood pressure or some other substantial interference with blood flow to the infant's brain during delivery. This can occur due to inadequate circulation or perfusion, impaired respiratory effort, or inadequate ventilation. Perinatal asphyxia happens in 2 to 10 per 1000 newborns that are born at term, and more for those that are born prematurely. WHO estimates that 4 million neonatal deaths occur yearly due to birth asphyxia, representing 38% of deaths of children under 5 years of age.Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births. An infant with severe perinatal asphyxia usually has poor color (cyanosis), perfusion, responsiveness, muscle tone, and respiratory effort, as reflected in a low 5 minute Apgar score. Extreme degrees of asphyxia can cause cardiac arrest and death. If resuscitation is successful, the infant is usually transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit.\nThere has long been a scientific debate over whether newborn infants with asphyxia should be resuscitated with 100% oxygen or normal air. It has been demonstrated that high concentrations of oxygen lead to generation of oxygen free radicals, which have a role in reperfusion injury after asphyxia. Research by Ola Didrik Saugstad and others led to new international guidelines on newborn resuscitation in 2010, recommending the use of normal air instead of 100% oxygen.There is considerable controversy over the diagnosis of birth asphyxia due to medicolegal reasons. Because of its lack of precision, the term is eschewed in modern obstetrics.",What is the cause of  hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy?,"Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births'"
18,19,Atherosclerosis,"Atherosclerosis is a pattern of the disease arteriosclerosis in which the wall of the artery develops abnormalities, called lesions. These lesions may lead to narrowing due to the buildup of atheromatous plaque. At onset there are usually no symptoms, but if they develop, symptoms generally begin around middle age. When severe, it can result in coronary artery disease, stroke, peripheral artery disease, or kidney problems, depending on which arteries are affected.The exact cause is not known and is proposed to be multifactorial. Risk factors include abnormal cholesterol levels, elevated levels of inflammatory markers, high blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, obesity, family history, genetic, and an unhealthy diet. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. The narrowing of arteries limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to parts of the body. Diagnosis is based upon a physical exam, electrocardiogram, and exercise stress test, among others.Prevention is generally by eating a healthy diet, exercising, not smoking, and maintaining a normal weight. Treatment of established disease may include medications to lower cholesterol such as statins, blood pressure medication, or medications that decrease clotting, such as aspirin. A number of procedures may also be carried out such as percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass graft, or carotid endarterectomy.Atherosclerosis generally starts when a person is young and worsens with age. Almost all people are affected to some degree by the age of 78",What is a medication that decreases clotting called?,The medication that decreases clotting is called aspirin
19,20,Biomedical,"The human body is made up of trillions of cells, each with a specific function. However, sometimes these cells can become abnormal and grow out of control, leading to the development of cancer.",What is a cancer?,Cancer is a disease characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells in the body.
20,21,Biomedical,"Diabetes is a chronic disease that affects millions of people worldwide. It occurs when the body is unable to properly use and store glucose, leading to high blood sugar levels.",What is diabetes?,"Diabetes is a chronic disease that affects the body's ability to use and store glucose, resulting in high blood sugar levels."
21,22,Biomedical,"The brain is a complex organ that controls many of the body's functions, including movement, sensation, and cognition. However, when the brain is damaged or injured, these functions can be impaired.",What happens when the brain is damaged or injured?,"When the brain is damaged or injured, it can result in impairments to movement, sensation, and cognition, among other functions."
22,23,Biomedical,"Antibiotics are medications used to treat bacterial infections. However, the overuse and misuse of antibiotics can lead to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.",What is antibiotic resistance?,"Antibiotic resistance occurs when bacteria adapt and become resistant to the effects of antibiotics, making it more difficult to treat bacterial infections."
23,24,Biomedical,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",What happens when the heart is damaged or weakened?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
24,25,Biomedical,"The respiratory system is responsible for breathing, which is essential for supplying oxygen to the body's cells. However, when the respiratory system is compromised, it can lead to difficulty breathing and other respiratory problems.",What is the respiratory system?,"The respiratory system is responsible for breathing and supplying oxygen to the body's cells, as well as removing carbon dioxide from the body."
25,26,Biomedical,"The immune system is responsible for protecting the body against infectious agents and other foreign invaders. However, when the immune system is compromised, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",What is the immune system?,"The immune system is responsible for protecting the body against infectious agents and other foreign invaders, as well as helping to repair damaged tissue."
26,27,Biomedical,"The liver is a vital organ that performs many important functions in the body, including filtering toxins from the blood and producing bile for digestion. However, when the liver is damaged or diseased, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",What does the liver do?,"The liver performs many important functions in the body, including filtering toxins from the blood and producing bile for digestion."
27,28,Biomedical,"The musculoskeletal system is responsible for movement and support of the body. However, when this system is compromised, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including pain and mobility issues.",What is the musculoskeletal system?,"The musculoskeletal system is responsible for movement and support of the body, including the bones, muscles, and joints."
28,29,Cancer,"Cancer is a broad term that refers to a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. There are many different types of cancer, and each type is classified based on the type of cell that is initially affected. Some common types of cancer include breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancer.",What is cancer?,Cancer is a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells.
29,30,Cancer,"Lung cancer is one of the most common types of cancer and is the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. It often has no symptoms in its early stages, making it difficult to detect. Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer, but exposure to secondhand smoke, radon gas, and other environmental factors can also increase the risk of developing the disease.",What is the leading cause of lung cancer?,Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer.
30,31,Cancer,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the breast. It is the most common cancer among women worldwide, and the second most common cancer overall. Some of the risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen. Early detection through regular mammograms and self-exams can greatly increase the chances of successful treatment.",What are some risk factors for developing breast cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen."
31,32,Cancer,"Prostate cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the prostate gland, which is located just below the bladder in men. It is the second most common cancer among men worldwide, and is often slow-growing and may not cause any symptoms for many years. Some risk factors for developing prostate cancer include age, family history of the disease, and a diet high in red meat and saturated fat.",Where is the prostate gland located?,The prostate gland is located just below the bladder in men.
32,33,Cancer,"Colorectal cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the colon or rectum. It is the third most common cancer worldwide, and is often preventable through regular screening and lifestyle changes. Some risk factors for developing colorectal cancer include age, family history of the disease, and a diet high in processed and red meats.",,
33,34,Cancer,"Skin cancer is a type of cancer that develops in the skin cells. It is the most common type of cancer in the United States, and can be caused by exposure to UV radiation from the sun or tanning beds. Some of the risk factors for developing skin cancer include fair skin, a history of sunburns, and a family history of the disease.",What are some risk factors for developing skin cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing skin cancer include fair skin, a history of sunburns, and a family history of the disease."
34,35,Cancer,"Pancreatic cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the pancreas. It is one of the most deadly types of cancer, as it is often diagnosed in its advanced stages and is difficult to treat. Some risk factors for developing pancreatic cancer include smoking, obesity, and a family history of the disease.",Why is pancreatic cancer difficult to treat?,Pancreatic cancer is difficult to treat because it is often diagnosed in its advanced stages.
35,36,Cancer,"Leukemia is a type of cancer that forms in the blood and bone marrow. It is the most common cancer in children, but can also occur in adults. Some of the risk factors for developing leukemia include exposure to radiation, certain genetic conditions, and a weakened immune system.",What is leukemia?,Leukemia is a type of cancer that forms in the blood and bone marrow.
36,37,Cancer,"Brain cancer is a type of cancer that develops in the brain or the tissues surrounding the brain. It can be primary, meaning it originates in the brain, or secondary, meaning it has spread to the brain from another part of the body. Some of the risk factors for developing brain cancer include exposure to radiation, a weakened immune system, and certain genetic conditions.",What are the risk factors for developing brain cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing brain cancer include exposure to radiation, a weakened immune system, and certain genetic conditions."
37,38,Cancer,"Ovarian cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the ovaries, which are located on either side of the uterus in women. It is often diagnosed in its later stages, making it difficult to treat. Some of the risk factors for developing ovarian cancer include age, a family history of the disease, and certain genetic mutations.",What are some risk factors for developing ovarian cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing ovarian cancer include age, a family history of the disease, and certain genetic mutations."
38,39,Cancer,"Prostate cancer is often diagnosed through a combination of a physical exam, blood tests, and imaging studies, such as an MRI or CT scan. A biopsy may also be performed to confirm the diagnosis. Treatment options for prostate cancer include surgery, radiation therapy, and hormone therapy.",How is prostate cancer diagnosed?,"Prostate cancer is often diagnosed through a combination of a physical exam, blood tests, and imaging studies, such as an MRI or CT scan."
39,40,Cancer,"Chemotherapy is a common treatment for many types of cancer. It works by killing cancer cells or stopping them from dividing and growing. Chemotherapy drugs are often given in cycles, with rest periods in between to allow the body to recover. Side effects of chemotherapy can include nausea, fatigue, and hair loss.",What is chemotherapy?,Chemotherapy is a common treatment for many types of cancer that works by killing cancer cells or stopping them from dividing and growing.
40,41,Cancer,"Lung cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the lungs. It is often caused by smoking, but can also occur in people who have never smoked. Symptoms of lung cancer can include coughing, chest pain, and shortness of breath. Treatment options for lung cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What are some symptoms of lung cancer?,"Symptoms of lung cancer can include coughing, chest pain, and shortness of breath."
41,42,Cancer,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the breast tissue. It is the most common type of cancer in women, but can also occur in men. Some of the risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, a family history of the disease, and certain genetic mutations. Treatment options for breast cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What are some risk factors for developing breast cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, a family history of the disease, and certain genetic mutations."
42,43,Cancer,"Colorectal cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the colon or rectum. It is the third most common type of cancer in both men and women. Some of the risk factors for developing colorectal cancer include age, a family history of the disease, and certain lifestyle factors such as a diet high in red and processed meats. Treatment options for colorectal cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What are some risk factors for developing colorectal cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing colorectal cancer include age, a family history of the disease, and certain lifestyle factors such as a diet high in red and processed meats."
43,44,Cancer,"Sarcoma is a type of cancer that forms in the bones, cartilage, or soft tissues of the body. There are many different subtypes of sarcoma, and each one may require a different treatment approach. Some of the risk factors for developing sarcoma include exposure to radiation and certain genetic conditions.",What is sarcoma?,"Sarcoma is a type of cancer that forms in the bones, cartilage, or soft tissues of the body."
44,45,Cancer,"Pancreatic cancer is often diagnosed in its later stages, when it has already spread to other parts of the body. This can make it difficult to treat, as surgery may no longer be an option. Palliative care may be used to manage symptoms and improve quality of life for patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.",What is palliative care?,"Palliative care is a type of care that is focused on relieving symptoms and improving quality of life for patients with serious illnesses, such as cancer."
45,46,Cancer,"Immunotherapy is a type of cancer treatment that works by boosting the body's immune system to fight cancer cells. It may be used alone or in combination with other treatments, such as chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Side effects of immunotherapy can include fatigue, fever, and skin reactions.",What is immunotherapy?,Immunotherapy is a type of cancer treatment that works by boosting the body's immune system to fight cancer cells.
46,47,Cancer,"Melanoma is a type of skin cancer that forms in the pigment-producing cells of the skin. It can be caused by exposure to UV radiation from the sun or tanning beds. Early detection and treatment are important for improving the prognosis of melanoma. Treatment options may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What is melanoma?,Melanoma is a type of skin cancer that forms in the pigment-producing cells of the skin.
47,48,Cancer,"Leukemia is a type of cancer that forms in the blood cells, particularly in the bone marrow. Symptoms of leukemia may include fatigue, fever, and unexplained weight loss. Treatment options for leukemia may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and stem cell transplantation.",What are some symptoms of leukemia?,"Symptoms of leukemia may include fatigue, fever, and unexplained weight loss."
48,49,Cancer,"Brain tumors are a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the brain or the surrounding tissues. Symptoms of brain tumors may include headaches, seizures, and changes in vision or hearing. Treatment options for brain tumors may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What are some symptoms of brain tumors?,"Symptoms of brain tumors may include headaches, seizures, and changes in vision or hearing."
49,50,Cancer,"Cervical cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the cervix, which is the lower part of the uterus. It is often caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Treatment options for cervical cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What causes cervical cancer?,Cervical cancer is often caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV).
50,51,Cancer,"Ovarian cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the ovaries, which are the reproductive organs in women. Symptoms of ovarian cancer may include abdominal bloating, pelvic pain, and changes in bowel habits. Treatment options for ovarian cancer may include surgery, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy.",What are some symptoms of ovarian cancer?,"Symptoms of ovarian cancer may include abdominal bloating, pelvic pain, and changes in bowel habits."
51,52,Cancer,"Hodgkin lymphoma is a type of cancer that forms in the lymphatic system. Symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma may include swollen lymph nodes, fever, and night sweats. Treatment options for Hodgkin lymphoma may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and stem cell transplantation.",What are some symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma?,"Symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma may include swollen lymph nodes, fever, and night sweats."
52,53,Cancer,"Bladder cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the bladder, which is the organ that stores urine. Symptoms of bladder cancer may include blood in the urine, pain during urination, and frequent urination. Treatment options for bladder cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What are some symptoms of bladder cancer?,"Symptoms of bladder cancer may include blood in the urine, pain during urination, and frequent urination."
53,54,Cancer,"Esophageal cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the esophagus, which is the tube that connects the throat to the stomach. Symptoms of esophageal cancer may include difficulty swallowing, chest pain, and weight loss. Treatment options for esophageal cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What are some symptoms of esophageal cancer?,"Symptoms of esophageal cancer may include difficulty swallowing, chest pain, and weight loss."
54,55,Cancer,"Testicular cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the testicles, which are the male reproductive organs that produce sperm. Symptoms of testicular cancer may include a lump or swelling in the testicles, pain or discomfort, and a feeling of heaviness in the scrotum. Treatment options for testicular cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What are some symptoms of testicular cancer?,"Symptoms of testicular cancer may include a lump or swelling in the testicles, pain or discomfort, and a feeling of heaviness in the scrotum."
55,56,Cancer,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the breast tissue. It is the most common cancer in women worldwide. Symptoms of breast cancer may include a lump or thickening in the breast tissue, nipple discharge, and changes in breast shape or size. Treatment options for breast cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What is breast cancer?,Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the breast tissue.
56,57,Cancer,"Prostate cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the prostate gland, which is a part of the male reproductive system. It is the most common cancer in men worldwide. Symptoms of prostate cancer may include difficulty urinating, frequent urination, and blood in the urine. Treatment options for prostate cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and hormone therapy.",What is prostate cancer?,Prostate cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the prostate gland.
57,58,Cancer,"Lung cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the lungs. It is the leading cause of cancer death in both men and women worldwide. Symptoms of lung cancer may include a persistent cough, chest pain, and shortness of breath. Treatment options for lung cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What is lung cancer?,Lung cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the lungs.
58,59,Cancer,"Colorectal cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the colon or rectum. It is the third most common cancer in both men and women worldwide. Symptoms of colorectal cancer may include changes in bowel habits, blood in the stool, and abdominal pain. Treatment options for colorectal cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What is colorectal cancer?,Colorectal cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the colon or rectum.
59,60,Cancer,"Skin cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the skin cells. It is often caused by exposure to UV radiation from the sun or tanning beds. Symptoms of skin cancer may include changes in the appearance of moles or other skin lesions, such as size, shape, or color. Treatment options for skin cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and topical medications.",What is skin cancer?,Skin cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the skin cells.
60,61,Cancer,"Pancreatic cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the pancreas, which is a gland that produces digestive enzymes and hormones. It is one of the most deadly cancers with a low survival rate. Symptoms of pancreatic cancer may include abdominal pain, weight loss, and jaundice. Treatment options for pancreatic cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What is pancreatic cancer?,Pancreatic cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the pancreas.
61,62,Cancer,"Brain cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the brain tissue. It can be difficult to treat and has a low survival rate. Symptoms of brain cancer may include headaches, seizures, and changes in vision or speech. Treatment options for brain cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.",What is brain cancer?,Brain cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the brain tissue.
62,63,Cancer,"Leukemia is a type of cancer that forms in the blood cells. It is the most common cancer in children and adolescents. Symptoms of leukemia may include fatigue, fever, and frequent infections. Treatment options for leukemia may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and bone marrow transplant.",What is leukemia?,Leukemia is a type of cancer that forms in the blood cells.
63,64,Kidney diseases,"Kidney disease is a condition in which the kidneys do not function properly. It can be caused by a variety of factors, including diabetes, high blood pressure, and certain medications. Symptoms of kidney disease may include fatigue, swelling in the legs and feet, and changes in urination. Treatment options for kidney disease may include medication, lifestyle changes, and dialysis.",What is kidney disease?,Kidney disease is a condition in which the kidneys do not function properly.
64,65,Kidney diseases,"Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a type of kidney disease that is characterized by the gradual loss of kidney function over time. It is often caused by underlying conditions such as diabetes or high blood pressure. Symptoms of CKD may include fatigue, swelling in the legs and feet, and changes in urination. Treatment options for CKD may include medication, lifestyle changes, and dialysis.",What is chronic kidney disease?,Chronic kidney disease is a type of kidney disease that is characterized by the gradual loss of kidney function over time.
65,66,Kidney diseases,"Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a sudden loss of kidney function that can be caused by a variety of factors, including dehydration, infection, and certain medications. Symptoms of AKI may include decreased urine output, swelling in the legs and feet, and confusion. Treatment options for AKI may include medication and dialysis.",What is acute kidney injury?,Acute kidney injury is a sudden loss of kidney function that can be caused by a variety of factors.
66,67,Kidney diseases,"Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is a genetic disorder in which cysts form in the kidneys, causing them to enlarge and lose function over time. Symptoms of PKD may include abdominal pain, high blood pressure, and blood in the urine. Treatment options for PKD may include medication and surgery.",What is polycystic kidney disease?,"Polycystic kidney disease is a genetic disorder in which cysts form in the kidneys, causing them to enlarge and lose function over time."
67,68,Kidney diseases,"Glomerulonephritis is a type of kidney disease that occurs when the tiny filters in the kidneys become inflamed and damaged. It can be caused by a variety of factors, including infections and autoimmune disorders. Symptoms of glomerulonephritis may include blood in the urine, swelling in the legs and feet, and high blood pressure. Treatment options for glomerulonephritis may include medication and dialysis.",What is glomerulonephritis?,Glomerulonephritis is a type of kidney disease that occurs when the tiny filters in the kidneys become inflamed and damaged.
68,69,Kidney diseases,"Nephrotic syndrome is a kidney disorder that causes the body to excrete too much protein in the urine. It can be caused by a variety of factors, including infections and certain medications. Symptoms of nephrotic syndrome may include swelling in the legs and feet, fatigue, and high cholesterol levels. Treatment options for nephrotic syndrome may include medication and dietary changes.",What is nephrotic syndrome?,Nephrotic syndrome is a kidney disorder that causes the body to excrete too much protein in the urine.
69,70,Kidney diseases,"Uremia is a condition in which waste products build up in the blood due to kidney failure. Symptoms of uremia may include fatigue, nausea, and confusion. Treatment options for uremia may include dialysis and medication.",What is uremia?,Uremia is a condition in which waste products build up in the blood due to kidney failure.
70,71,Blood cancer,"Blood cancer, also known as leukemia, is a type of cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow. It occurs when abnormal white blood cells are produced and can interfere with the body's normal blood cell production. Symptoms of blood cancer may include fatigue, frequent infections, and unexplained weight loss. Treatment options for blood cancer may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and stem cell transplantation.",What is blood cancer?,"Blood cancer, also known as leukemia, is a type of cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow."
71,72,Blood cancer,"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a type of blood cancer that affects white blood cells called lymphocytes. It typically progresses slowly and may not cause symptoms in the early stages. Symptoms of CLL may include fatigue, fever, and swollen lymph nodes. Treatment options for CLL may include chemotherapy and targeted therapy.",What is chronic lymphocytic leukemia?,Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a type of blood cancer that affects white blood cells called lymphocytes.
72,73,Blood cancer,"Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a type of blood cancer that affects white blood cells called lymphoblasts. It is most common in children, but can also occur in adults. Symptoms of ALL may include fatigue, frequent infections, and easy bruising or bleeding. Treatment options for ALL may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and stem cell transplantation.",What is acute lymphoblastic leukemia?,Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is a type of blood cancer that affects white blood cells called lymphoblasts.
73,74,Blood cancer,"Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of blood cancer that affects white blood cells called myeloid cells. It is more common in adults than children. Symptoms of AML may include fatigue, fever, and easy bruising or bleeding. Treatment options for AML may include chemotherapy and targeted therapy.",What is acute myeloid leukemia?,Acute myeloid leukemia is a type of blood cancer that affects white blood cells called myeloid cells.
74,75,Blood cancer,"Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a type of blood cancer that affects white blood cells called myeloid cells. It typically progresses slowly in the early stages, but can become more aggressive over time. Symptoms of CML may include fatigue, weight loss, and abdominal pain. Treatment options for CML may include chemotherapy and targeted therapy.",What is chronic myeloid leukemia?,Chronic myeloid leukemia is a type of blood cancer that affects white blood cells called myeloid cells.
75,76,Blood cancer,"Hairy cell leukemia is a rare type of blood cancer that affects B cells. It is called ""hairy"" cell leukemia because the cancer cells have fine, hair-like projections on their surface. Symptoms of hairy cell leukemia may include fatigue, fever, and frequent infections. Treatment options for hairy cell leukemia may include chemotherapy and immunotherapy.",What is hairy cell leukemia?,Hairy cell leukemia is a rare type of blood cancer that affects B cells.
76,77,Blood cancer,"Lymphoma is a type of blood cancer that affects the lymphatic system, which is part of the body's immune system. It can occur in the lymph nodes, spleen, bone marrow, and other organs. Symptoms of lymphoma may include swollen lymph nodes, fatigue, and unexplained weight loss. Treatment options for lymphoma may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and stem cell transplantation.",What is lymphoma?,Lymphoma is a type of blood cancer that affects the lymphatic system.
77,78,Liver cancer,"Liver cancer is a type of cancer that begins in the cells of the liver. The liver is an important organ that helps filter toxins from the body and aids in digestion. Risk factors for liver cancer include chronic hepatitis B or C infections, excessive alcohol consumption, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Symptoms of liver cancer may include abdominal pain, unexplained weight loss, and jaundice. Treatment options for liver cancer may include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy.",What is liver cancer?,Liver cancer is a type of cancer that begins in the cells of the liver.
78,79,Liver cancer,"Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of liver cancer. It begins in the cells of the liver called hepatocytes. Risk factors for HCC include chronic hepatitis B or C infections, cirrhosis, and excessive alcohol consumption. Symptoms of HCC may include abdominal pain, unexplained weight loss, and jaundice. Treatment options for HCC may include surgery, liver transplant, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy.",What is hepatocellular carcinoma?,Hepatocellular carcinoma is the most common type of liver cancer.
79,80,Liver cancer,"Cholangiocarcinoma is a type of liver cancer that begins in the cells of the bile ducts. The bile ducts are tubes that transport bile from the liver to the small intestine. Risk factors for cholangiocarcinoma include primary sclerosing cholangitis, chronic liver infections, and exposure to certain chemicals. Symptoms of cholangiocarcinoma may include jaundice, abdominal pain, and unexplained weight loss. Treatment options for cholangiocarcinoma may include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy.",What is cholangiocarcinoma?,Cholangiocarcinoma is a type of liver cancer that begins in the cells of the bile ducts.
80,81,Liver cancer,"Angiosarcoma is a rare type of liver cancer that begins in the blood vessels of the liver. It is more common in people who have been exposed to certain chemicals or radiation. Symptoms of angiosarcoma may include abdominal pain, unexplained weight loss, and fatigue. Treatment options for angiosarcoma may include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy.",What is angiosarcoma?,Angiosarcoma is a rare type of liver cancer that begins in the blood vessels of the liver.
81,82,Liver cancer,"Hepatoblastoma is a rare type of liver cancer that occurs primarily in children. It begins in the cells of the liver called hepatoblasts. Risk factors for hepatoblastoma include certain genetic disorders and a family history of the disease. Symptoms of hepatoblastoma may include abdominal pain, unexplained weight loss, and a swollen abdomen. Treatment options for hepatoblastoma may include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy.",What is hepatoblastoma?,Hepatoblastoma is a rare type of liver cancer that occurs primarily in children.
82,83,Liver cancer,"Liver metastases occur when cancer cells from other parts of the body spread to the liver. This is a common complication of other types of cancer, such as colorectal cancer, breast cancer, and lung cancer. Symptoms of liver metastases may include abdominal pain, unexplained weight loss, and jaundice. Treatment options for liver metastases may include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy.",What are liver metastases?,Liver metastases occur when cancer cells from other parts of the body spread to the liver.
83,84,General Biomedical,"The human body is made up of approximately 60% water. Water is essential for various biological functions, such as regulating body temperature, transporting nutrients, and removing waste.",What percentage of the human body is made up of water?,Approximately 60%.
84,85,General Biomedical,The average human has a resting respiratory rate of 12 to 18 breaths per minute. This is the number of times a person inhales and exhales in one minute while at rest.,What is the average resting respiratory rate for humans?,The average resting respiratory rate for humans is 12 to 18 breaths per minute.
85,86,General Biomedical,"The human eye can distinguish approximately 10 million different colors. This is possible due to the presence of specialized cells in the retina called cones, which are responsible for color vision.",How many colors can the human eye distinguish?,The human eye can distinguish approximately 10 million different colors.
86,87,General Biomedical,"The human body contains approximately 640 muscles, which are responsible for movement and stability.",How many muscles does the human body contain?,Approximately 640.
87,88,General Biomedical,"The recommended daily intake of iron for adult men is 8 mg per day, while adult women require 18 mg per day due to menstruation. Iron is essential for the production of hemoglobin, which is responsible for carrying oxygen in the blood.",What is the recommended daily intake of iron for adult men and women?,"Adult men require 8 mg per day, while adult women require 18 mg per day."
88,89,General Biomedical,"The normal range for blood glucose levels in non-diabetic adults is between 70 and 99 mg/dL. Blood glucose levels outside this range can indicate various health conditions, such as diabetes.",What is the normal range for blood glucose levels in non-diabetic adults?,The normal range for blood glucose levels in non-diabetic adults is between 70 and 99 mg/dL.
89,90,General Biomedical,The average lifespan of a red blood cell is approximately 120 days. Red blood cells are responsible for transporting oxygen from the lungs to various tissues and organs throughout the body.,What is the average lifespan of a red blood cell?,Approximately 120 days.
90,91,General Biomedical,"The recommended daily intake of calcium for adults aged 19 to 50 is 1,000 mg per day, while adults over 50 require 1,200 mg per day to maintain bone health. Calcium is essential for the formation and maintenance of bones and teeth.",What is the recommended daily intake of calcium for adults aged 19 to 50 and adults over 50?,"Adults aged 19 to 50 require 1,000 mg per day, while adults over 50 require 1,200 mg per day."
91,92,General Biomedical,"The human body contains approximately 5 liters of blood, which is responsible for transporting nutrients, oxygen, and waste products throughout the body.",How much blood does the human body contain?,Approximately 5 liters.
92,93,General Biomedical,The recommended daily intake of fiber for adults is 25 to 30 grams per day. Fiber is essential for digestive health and can help lower cholesterol and blood sugar levels.,What is the recommended daily intake of fiber for adults?,25 to 30 grams per day.
93,94,General Biomedical,"The average human heart rate is approximately 60 to 100 beats per minute at rest. Exercise, emotions, and various health conditions can affect heart rate.",What is the average human heart rate at rest?,The average human heart rate is approximately 60 to 100 beats per minute at rest.
94,95,General Biomedical,The recommended daily intake of vitamin D for adults is 600 to 800 international units (IU) per day. Vitamin D is essential for bone health and may have other health benefits as well.,What is the recommended daily intake of vitamin D for adults?,600 to 800 international units (IU) per day.
95,96,General Biomedical,"The human body contains approximately 206 bones, which provide support, protection, and allow for movement.",How many bones does the human body contain?,Approximately 206.
96,97,General Biomedical,"The average adult male has a total blood volume of approximately 5 to 6 liters, while the average adult female has a total blood volume of approximately 4 to 5 liters. Blood volume can vary based on various factors, such as age, weight, and overall health.",What is the average total blood volume for adult males and females?,"Adult males have a total blood volume of approximately 5 to 6 liters, while adult females have a total blood volume of approximately 4 to 5 liters."
97,98,General Biomedical,"The recommended daily intake of potassium for adults is 2,500 to 3,000 milligrams per day. Potassium is essential for various biological functions, such as muscle and nerve function, and regulating fluid balance in the body.",What is the recommended daily intake of potassium for adults?,"2,500 to 3,000 milligrams per day."
98,99,General Biomedical,"The average adult bladder can hold approximately 400 to 600 milliliters of urine. Urinary frequency and capacity can vary based on various factors, such as age, gender, and overall health.",What is the average capacity of the adult bladder?,Approximately 400 to 600 milliliters of urine.
99,100,General Biomedical,"The recommended daily intake of vitamin C for adults is 75 to 90 milligrams per day for women and 90 to 120 milligrams per day for men. Vitamin C is essential for various biological functions, such as wound healing, immune function, and collagen production.",What is the recommended daily intake of vitamin C for adults?,"For women, 75 to 90 milligrams per day, and for men, 90 to 120 milligrams per day."
100,101,General Biomedical,"The average adult human body temperature is approximately 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit or 37 degrees Celsius. Body temperature can vary based on various factors, such as time of day, activity level, and age.",What is the average human body temperature?,Approximately 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit or 37 degrees Celsius.
101,102,General Biomedical,"The recommended daily intake of magnesium for adults is 320 to 420 milligrams per day for women and 400 to 420 milligrams per day for men. Magnesium is essential for various biological functions, such as muscle and nerve function and bone health.",What is the recommended daily intake of magnesium for adults?,"For women, 320 to 420 milligrams per day, and for men, 400 to 420 milligrams per day."
102,103,General Biomedical,"The average adult human brain weighs approximately 1.4 kilograms or 3 pounds. The brain is responsible for various cognitive functions, such as thinking, memory, and emotion.",What is the average weight of the adult human brain?,Approximately 1
103,104,paraphrased,"Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis). It is due to infection by a bacterium of the genus Nocardia, most commonly Nocardia asteroides or Nocardia brasiliensis.\nIt is most common in adult males, especially those with a weakened immune system. In patients with brain nocardia infection, mortality exceeds 80%; in other forms, mortality is 50%, even with appropriate therapy.It is one of several conditions that have been called \""the great imitator\"". Cutaneous nocardiosis commonly occurs in immunocompetent hosts and is caused in 80% of cases by Nocardia brasiliensis",tell me the definition of pulmonary nocardiosis?,Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis)
104,105,paraphrased,"Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis). It is due to infection by a bacterium of the genus Nocardia, most commonly Nocardia asteroides or Nocardia brasiliensis.\nIt is most common in adult males, especially those with a weakened immune system. In patients with brain nocardia infection, mortality exceeds 80%; in other forms, mortality is 50%, even with appropriate therapy.It is one of several conditions that have been called \""the great imitator\"". Cutaneous nocardiosis commonly occurs in immunocompetent hosts and is caused in 80% of cases by Nocardia brasiliensis",what is pulmonary nocardiosis?,Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis)
105,106,paraphrased,"Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis). It is due to infection by a bacterium of the genus Nocardia, most commonly Nocardia asteroides or Nocardia brasiliensis.\nIt is most common in adult males, especially those with a weakened immune system. In patients with brain nocardia infection, mortality exceeds 80%; in other forms, mortality is 50%, even with appropriate therapy.It is one of several conditions that have been called \""the great imitator\"". Cutaneous nocardiosis commonly occurs in immunocompetent hosts and is caused in 80% of cases by Nocardia brasiliensis",how many cases are caused by nocardia brasiliensis?,80% of  cases are caused by Nocardia brasiliensis
106,107,paraphrased,"Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis). It is due to infection by a bacterium of the genus Nocardia, most commonly Nocardia asteroides or Nocardia brasiliensis.\nIt is most common in adult males, especially those with a weakened immune system. In patients with brain nocardia infection, mortality exceeds 80%; in other forms, mortality is 50%, even with appropriate therapy.It is one of several conditions that have been called \""the great imitator\"". Cutaneous nocardiosis commonly occurs in immunocompetent hosts and is caused in 80% of cases by Nocardia brasiliensis",tell me the percentage of cases involving nocardia brasiliensis?,80% of  cases are caused by Nocardia brasiliensis
107,108,paraphrased,"Nocardiosis is an infectious disease affecting either the lungs (pulmonary nocardiosis) or the whole body (systemic nocardiosis). It is due to infection by a bacterium of the genus Nocardia, most commonly Nocardia asteroides or Nocardia brasiliensis.\nIt is most common in adult males, especially those with a weakened immune system. In patients with brain nocardia infection, mortality exceeds 80%; in other forms, mortality is 50%, even with appropriate therapy.It is one of several conditions that have been called \""the great imitator\"". Cutaneous nocardiosis commonly occurs in immunocompetent hosts and is caused in 80% of cases by Nocardia brasiliensis",what percentage of cases are caused by nocardia brasiliensis?,80% of  cases are caused by Nocardia brasiliensis
108,109,paraphrased,"Small intestine cancer is a cancer of the small intestine. It is relatively rare compared to other gastrointestinal malignancies such as gastric cancer (stomach cancer) and colorectal cancer.Small intestine cancer can be subdivided into duodenal cancer (the first part of the small intestine) and cancer of the jejunum and ileum (the latter two parts of the small intestine). Duodenal cancer has more in common with stomach cancer, while cancer of the jejunum and ileum have more in common with colorectal cancer. Five-year survival rates are 65%.",tell me the survival rate of small intestine cancer in 5 years?,Five-year survival rates  of small intestine cancer is 65%.
109,110,paraphrased,"Small intestine cancer is a cancer of the small intestine. It is relatively rare compared to other gastrointestinal malignancies such as gastric cancer (stomach cancer) and colorectal cancer.Small intestine cancer can be subdivided into duodenal cancer (the first part of the small intestine) and cancer of the jejunum and ileum (the latter two parts of the small intestine). Duodenal cancer has more in common with stomach cancer, while cancer of the jejunum and ileum have more in common with colorectal cancer. Five-year survival rates are 65%.",tell me the survival rate for small intestine cancer?,Five-year survival rates  of small intestine cancer is 65%.
110,111,paraphrased,"Small intestine cancer is a cancer of the small intestine. It is relatively rare compared to other gastrointestinal malignancies such as gastric cancer (stomach cancer) and colorectal cancer.Small intestine cancer can be subdivided into duodenal cancer (the first part of the small intestine) and cancer of the jejunum and ileum (the latter two parts of the small intestine). Duodenal cancer has more in common with stomach cancer, while cancer of the jejunum and ileum have more in common with colorectal cancer. Five-year survival rates are 65%.",tell me the survival rate of small intestine cancer?,Five-year survival rates  of small intestine cancer is 65%.
111,112,paraphrased,"Small intestine cancer is a cancer of the small intestine. It is relatively rare compared to other gastrointestinal malignancies such as gastric cancer (stomach cancer) and colorectal cancer.Small intestine cancer can be subdivided into duodenal cancer (the first part of the small intestine) and cancer of the jejunum and ileum (the latter two parts of the small intestine). Duodenal cancer has more in common with stomach cancer, while cancer of the jejunum and ileum have more in common with colorectal cancer. Five-year survival rates are 65%.",what are 5-year survival rates for small intestine cancer?,Five-year survival rates  of small intestine cancer is 65%.
112,113,paraphrased,"Small intestine cancer is a cancer of the small intestine. It is relatively rare compared to other gastrointestinal malignancies such as gastric cancer (stomach cancer) and colorectal cancer.Small intestine cancer can be subdivided into duodenal cancer (the first part of the small intestine) and cancer of the jejunum and ileum (the latter two parts of the small intestine). Duodenal cancer has more in common with stomach cancer, while cancer of the jejunum and ileum have more in common with colorectal cancer. Five-year survival rates are 65%.",tell me the 5-year survival rate for small intestine cancer?,Five-year survival rates  of small intestine cancer is 65%.
113,114,paraphrased,"Small intestine cancer is a cancer of the small intestine. It is relatively rare compared to other gastrointestinal malignancies such as gastric cancer (stomach cancer) and colorectal cancer.Small intestine cancer can be subdivided into duodenal cancer (the first part of the small intestine) and cancer of the jejunum and ileum (the latter two parts of the small intestine). Duodenal cancer has more in common with stomach cancer, while cancer of the jejunum and ileum have more in common with colorectal cancer. Five-year survival rates are 65%.",what is a 5 year survival rate for small intestine cancer?,Five-year survival rates  of small intestine cancer is 65%.
114,115,paraphrased,"Amblyopia, also called lazy eye, is a disorder of sight in which the brain fails to fully process input from one eye and over time favors the other eye. It results in decreased vision in an eye that typically appears normal in other aspects. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. This can occur from poor alignment of the eyes (strabismic), an eye being irregularly shaped such that focusing is difficult, one eye being more nearsighted or farsighted than the other (refractive), or clouding of the lens of an eye (deprivational). After the underlying cause is addressed, vision is not restored right away, as the mechanism also involves the brain. Amblyopia can be difficult to detect, so vision testing is recommended for all children around the ages of four to five.Early detection improves treatment success. Glasses may be all the treatment needed for some children. If this is not sufficient, treatments which encourage or force the child to use the weaker eye are used. This is done by either using a patch or putting atropine in the stronger eye. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. In adults, the disorder is estimated to affect 1\u20135% of the population. While treatment improves vision, it does not typically restore it to normal in the affected eye. Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s. The condition may make people ineligible to be pilots or police officers",tell me the common cause of amblyopia?,The most common cause of amblyopia is decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults
115,116,paraphrased,"Amblyopia, also called lazy eye, is a disorder of sight in which the brain fails to fully process input from one eye and over time favors the other eye. It results in decreased vision in an eye that typically appears normal in other aspects. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. This can occur from poor alignment of the eyes (strabismic), an eye being irregularly shaped such that focusing is difficult, one eye being more nearsighted or farsighted than the other (refractive), or clouding of the lens of an eye (deprivational). After the underlying cause is addressed, vision is not restored right away, as the mechanism also involves the brain. Amblyopia can be difficult to detect, so vision testing is recommended for all children around the ages of four to five.Early detection improves treatment success. Glasses may be all the treatment needed for some children. If this is not sufficient, treatments which encourage or force the child to use the weaker eye are used. This is done by either using a patch or putting atropine in the stronger eye. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. In adults, the disorder is estimated to affect 1\u20135% of the population. While treatment improves vision, it does not typically restore it to normal in the affected eye. Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s. The condition may make people ineligible to be pilots or police officers",tell me the most common cause of amblyopia?,The most common cause of amblyopia is decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults
116,117,paraphrased,"Amblyopia, also called lazy eye, is a disorder of sight in which the brain fails to fully process input from one eye and over time favors the other eye. It results in decreased vision in an eye that typically appears normal in other aspects. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. This can occur from poor alignment of the eyes (strabismic), an eye being irregularly shaped such that focusing is difficult, one eye being more nearsighted or farsighted than the other (refractive), or clouding of the lens of an eye (deprivational). After the underlying cause is addressed, vision is not restored right away, as the mechanism also involves the brain. Amblyopia can be difficult to detect, so vision testing is recommended for all children around the ages of four to five.Early detection improves treatment success. Glasses may be all the treatment needed for some children. If this is not sufficient, treatments which encourage or force the child to use the weaker eye are used. This is done by either using a patch or putting atropine in the stronger eye. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. In adults, the disorder is estimated to affect 1\u20135% of the population. While treatment improves vision, it does not typically restore it to normal in the affected eye. Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s. The condition may make people ineligible to be pilots or police officers",which is the most common cause of amblyopia?,The most common cause of amblyopia is decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults
117,118,paraphrased,"Amblyopia, also called lazy eye, is a disorder of sight in which the brain fails to fully process input from one eye and over time favors the other eye. It results in decreased vision in an eye that typically appears normal in other aspects. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. This can occur from poor alignment of the eyes (strabismic), an eye being irregularly shaped such that focusing is difficult, one eye being more nearsighted or farsighted than the other (refractive), or clouding of the lens of an eye (deprivational). After the underlying cause is addressed, vision is not restored right away, as the mechanism also involves the brain. Amblyopia can be difficult to detect, so vision testing is recommended for all children around the ages of four to five.Early detection improves treatment success. Glasses may be all the treatment needed for some children. If this is not sufficient, treatments which encourage or force the child to use the weaker eye are used. This is done by either using a patch or putting atropine in the stronger eye. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. In adults, the disorder is estimated to affect 1\u20135% of the population. While treatment improves vision, it does not typically restore it to normal in the affected eye. Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s. The condition may make people ineligible to be pilots or police officers",when was amblyopia first diagnosed?,Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s
118,119,paraphrased,"Amblyopia, also called lazy eye, is a disorder of sight in which the brain fails to fully process input from one eye and over time favors the other eye. It results in decreased vision in an eye that typically appears normal in other aspects. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. This can occur from poor alignment of the eyes (strabismic), an eye being irregularly shaped such that focusing is difficult, one eye being more nearsighted or farsighted than the other (refractive), or clouding of the lens of an eye (deprivational). After the underlying cause is addressed, vision is not restored right away, as the mechanism also involves the brain. Amblyopia can be difficult to detect, so vision testing is recommended for all children around the ages of four to five.Early detection improves treatment success. Glasses may be all the treatment needed for some children. If this is not sufficient, treatments which encourage or force the child to use the weaker eye are used. This is done by either using a patch or putting atropine in the stronger eye. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. In adults, the disorder is estimated to affect 1\u20135% of the population. While treatment improves vision, it does not typically restore it to normal in the affected eye. Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s. The condition may make people ineligible to be pilots or police officers",when is amblyopia first described?,Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s
119,120,paraphrased,"Amblyopia, also called lazy eye, is a disorder of sight in which the brain fails to fully process input from one eye and over time favors the other eye. It results in decreased vision in an eye that typically appears normal in other aspects. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. This can occur from poor alignment of the eyes (strabismic), an eye being irregularly shaped such that focusing is difficult, one eye being more nearsighted or farsighted than the other (refractive), or clouding of the lens of an eye (deprivational). After the underlying cause is addressed, vision is not restored right away, as the mechanism also involves the brain. Amblyopia can be difficult to detect, so vision testing is recommended for all children around the ages of four to five.Early detection improves treatment success. Glasses may be all the treatment needed for some children. If this is not sufficient, treatments which encourage or force the child to use the weaker eye are used. This is done by either using a patch or putting atropine in the stronger eye. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. In adults, the disorder is estimated to affect 1\u20135% of the population. While treatment improves vision, it does not typically restore it to normal in the affected eye. Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s. The condition may make people ineligible to be pilots or police officers",when was amblyopia first described?,Amblyopia was first described in the 1600s
120,121,paraphrased,"Hepatitis B is an infectious disease caused by the Hepatitis B virus (HBV) that affects the liver; it is a type of viral hepatitis. It can cause both acute and chronic infection.Many people have no symptoms during an initial infection. For others, symptoms may appear 30 to 180 days after becoming infected and can include a rapid onset of sickness with nausea, vomiting, yellowish skin, fatigue, dark urine, and abdominal pain. Symptoms during acute infection typically last for a few weeks, though some people may feel sick for up to six months. Deaths resulting from acute stage HBV infections are rare. An HBV infection lasting longer than six months is usually considered chronic. The likelihood of developing chronic hepatitis B is higher for those who are infected with HBV at a younger age. About 90% of those infected during or shortly after birth develop chronic hepatitis B, while less than 10% of those infected after the age of five develop chronic cases. Most of those with chronic disease have no symptoms; however, cirrhosis and liver cancer eventually develop in about 25% of those with chronic HBV.The virus is transmitted by exposure to infectious blood or body fluids. In areas where the disease is common, infection around the time of birth or from contact with other people's blood during childhood are the most frequent methods by which hepatitis B is acquired. In areas where the disease is rare, intravenous drug use and sexual intercourse are the most frequent routes of infection. Other risk factors include working in healthcare, blood transfusions, dialysis, living with an infected person, travel in countries with high infection rates, and living in an institution. Tattooing and acupuncture led to a significant number of cases in the 1980s; however, this has become less common with improved sterilization. The hepatitis B viruses cannot be spread by holding hands, sharing eating utensils, kissing, hugging, coughing, sneezing, or breastfeeding. The infection can be diagnosed 30 to 60 days after exposure. The diagnosis is usually confirmed by testing the blood for parts of the virus and for antibodies against the virus. It is one of five main hepatitis viruses: A, B, C, D, and E. During an initial infection, care is based on a person's symptoms. In those who develop chronic disease, antiviral medication such as tenofovir or interferon may be useful; however, these drugs are expensive. Liver transplantation is sometimes recommended for cases of cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma.Hepatitis B infection has been preventable by vaccination since 1982. As of 2022, the hepatitis B vaccine is between 98% and 100% effective in preventing infection. The vaccine is administered in several doses; after an initial dose, two or three more vaccine doses are required at a later time for full effect. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends infants receive the vaccine within 24 hours after birth when possible. National programs have made the hepatitis B vaccine available for infants in 190 countries as of the end of 2021. To further prevent infection, the WHO recommends testing all donated blood for hepatitis B before using it for transfusion. Using antiviral prophylaxis to prevent mother-to-child transmission is also recommended, as is following safe sex practices, including the use of condoms In 2016, the WHO set a goal of eliminating viral hepatitis as a threat to global public health by 2030. Achieving this goal would require the development of therapeutic treatments to cure chronic hepatitis B, as well as preventing its transmission and using vaccines to prevent new infections.An estimated 296 million people, or 3.8% of the global population, had chronic hepatitis B infections as of 2019. Another 1.5 million developed acute infections that year, and 820,000 deaths occurred as a result of HBV. Cirrhosis and liver cancer are responsible for most HBV-related deaths. The disease is most prevalent in Africa (affecting 7.5% of the continent\u2019s population) and in the Western Pacific region (5.9%). Infection rates are 1.5% in Europe and 0.5% in the Americas. According to some estimates, about a third of the world's population has been infected with hepatitis B at one point in their lives.",how does the hbv virus spread?,The HBV virus  is transmitted by exposure to infectious blood or body fluids
121,122,paraphrased,"Hepatitis B is an infectious disease caused by the Hepatitis B virus (HBV) that affects the liver; it is a type of viral hepatitis. It can cause both acute and chronic infection.Many people have no symptoms during an initial infection. For others, symptoms may appear 30 to 180 days after becoming infected and can include a rapid onset of sickness with nausea, vomiting, yellowish skin, fatigue, dark urine, and abdominal pain. Symptoms during acute infection typically last for a few weeks, though some people may feel sick for up to six months. Deaths resulting from acute stage HBV infections are rare. An HBV infection lasting longer than six months is usually considered chronic. The likelihood of developing chronic hepatitis B is higher for those who are infected with HBV at a younger age. About 90% of those infected during or shortly after birth develop chronic hepatitis B, while less than 10% of those infected after the age of five develop chronic cases. Most of those with chronic disease have no symptoms; however, cirrhosis and liver cancer eventually develop in about 25% of those with chronic HBV.The virus is transmitted by exposure to infectious blood or body fluids. In areas where the disease is common, infection around the time of birth or from contact with other people's blood during childhood are the most frequent methods by which hepatitis B is acquired. In areas where the disease is rare, intravenous drug use and sexual intercourse are the most frequent routes of infection. Other risk factors include working in healthcare, blood transfusions, dialysis, living with an infected person, travel in countries with high infection rates, and living in an institution. Tattooing and acupuncture led to a significant number of cases in the 1980s; however, this has become less common with improved sterilization. The hepatitis B viruses cannot be spread by holding hands, sharing eating utensils, kissing, hugging, coughing, sneezing, or breastfeeding. The infection can be diagnosed 30 to 60 days after exposure. The diagnosis is usually confirmed by testing the blood for parts of the virus and for antibodies against the virus. It is one of five main hepatitis viruses: A, B, C, D, and E. During an initial infection, care is based on a person's symptoms. In those who develop chronic disease, antiviral medication such as tenofovir or interferon may be useful; however, these drugs are expensive. Liver transplantation is sometimes recommended for cases of cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma.Hepatitis B infection has been preventable by vaccination since 1982. As of 2022, the hepatitis B vaccine is between 98% and 100% effective in preventing infection. The vaccine is administered in several doses; after an initial dose, two or three more vaccine doses are required at a later time for full effect. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends infants receive the vaccine within 24 hours after birth when possible. National programs have made the hepatitis B vaccine available for infants in 190 countries as of the end of 2021. To further prevent infection, the WHO recommends testing all donated blood for hepatitis B before using it for transfusion. Using antiviral prophylaxis to prevent mother-to-child transmission is also recommended, as is following safe sex practices, including the use of condoms In 2016, the WHO set a goal of eliminating viral hepatitis as a threat to global public health by 2030. Achieving this goal would require the development of therapeutic treatments to cure chronic hepatitis B, as well as preventing its transmission and using vaccines to prevent new infections.An estimated 296 million people, or 3.8% of the global population, had chronic hepatitis B infections as of 2019. Another 1.5 million developed acute infections that year, and 820,000 deaths occurred as a result of HBV. Cirrhosis and liver cancer are responsible for most HBV-related deaths. The disease is most prevalent in Africa (affecting 7.5% of the continent\u2019s population) and in the Western Pacific region (5.9%). Infection rates are 1.5% in Europe and 0.5% in the Americas. According to some estimates, about a third of the world's population has been infected with hepatitis B at one point in their lives.",tell me the way the hbb virus is transmitted?,The HBV virus  is transmitted by exposure to infectious blood or body fluids
122,123,paraphrased,"Lupus, technically known as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue in many parts of the body. Symptoms vary among people and may be mild to severe. Common symptoms include painful and swollen joints, fever, chest pain, hair loss, mouth ulcers, swollen lymph nodes, feeling tired, and a red rash which is most commonly on the face. Often there are periods of illness, called flares, and periods of remission during which there are few symptoms.The cause of SLE is not clear. It is thought to involve a combination of genetics and environmental factors. Among identical twins, if one is affected there is a 24% chance the other one will also develop the disease. Female sex hormones, sunlight, smoking, vitamin D deficiency, and certain infections are also believed to increase a person's risk. The mechanism involves an immune response by autoantibodies against a person's own tissues. These are most commonly anti-nuclear antibodies and they result in inflammation. Diagnosis can be difficult and is based on a combination of symptoms and laboratory tests. There are a number of other kinds of lupus erythematosus including discoid lupus erythematosus, neonatal lupus, and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus.There is no cure for SLE, but there are experimental and symptomatic treatments. Treatments may include NSAIDs, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants, hydroxychloroquine, and methotrexate. Although corticosteroids are rapidly effective, long-term use results in side effects. Alternative medicine has not been shown to affect the disease. Life expectancy is lower among people with SLE, but with modern treatment, 80-90% of patients can have a normal life span. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. While women with lupus have higher risk pregnancies, most are successful.Rate of SLE varies between countries from 20 to 70 per 100,000. Women of childbearing age are affected about nine times more often than men. While it most commonly begins between the ages of 15 and 45, a wide range of ages can be affected. Those of African, Caribbean, and Chinese descent are at higher risk than those of European descent. Rates of disease in the developing world are unclear",tell me the main cause of death among women with lupus?,The most common cause of death of women  with lupus is   cardiovascular disease
123,124,paraphrased,"Lupus, technically known as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue in many parts of the body. Symptoms vary among people and may be mild to severe. Common symptoms include painful and swollen joints, fever, chest pain, hair loss, mouth ulcers, swollen lymph nodes, feeling tired, and a red rash which is most commonly on the face. Often there are periods of illness, called flares, and periods of remission during which there are few symptoms.The cause of SLE is not clear. It is thought to involve a combination of genetics and environmental factors. Among identical twins, if one is affected there is a 24% chance the other one will also develop the disease. Female sex hormones, sunlight, smoking, vitamin D deficiency, and certain infections are also believed to increase a person's risk. The mechanism involves an immune response by autoantibodies against a person's own tissues. These are most commonly anti-nuclear antibodies and they result in inflammation. Diagnosis can be difficult and is based on a combination of symptoms and laboratory tests. There are a number of other kinds of lupus erythematosus including discoid lupus erythematosus, neonatal lupus, and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus.There is no cure for SLE, but there are experimental and symptomatic treatments. Treatments may include NSAIDs, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants, hydroxychloroquine, and methotrexate. Although corticosteroids are rapidly effective, long-term use results in side effects. Alternative medicine has not been shown to affect the disease. Life expectancy is lower among people with SLE, but with modern treatment, 80-90% of patients can have a normal life span. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. While women with lupus have higher risk pregnancies, most are successful.Rate of SLE varies between countries from 20 to 70 per 100,000. Women of childbearing age are affected about nine times more often than men. While it most commonly begins between the ages of 15 and 45, a wide range of ages can be affected. Those of African, Caribbean, and Chinese descent are at higher risk than those of European descent. Rates of disease in the developing world are unclear",tell me the most common cause of death of a woman with lupus?,The most common cause of death of women  with lupus is   cardiovascular disease
124,125,paraphrased,"Lupus, technically known as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue in many parts of the body. Symptoms vary among people and may be mild to severe. Common symptoms include painful and swollen joints, fever, chest pain, hair loss, mouth ulcers, swollen lymph nodes, feeling tired, and a red rash which is most commonly on the face. Often there are periods of illness, called flares, and periods of remission during which there are few symptoms.The cause of SLE is not clear. It is thought to involve a combination of genetics and environmental factors. Among identical twins, if one is affected there is a 24% chance the other one will also develop the disease. Female sex hormones, sunlight, smoking, vitamin D deficiency, and certain infections are also believed to increase a person's risk. The mechanism involves an immune response by autoantibodies against a person's own tissues. These are most commonly anti-nuclear antibodies and they result in inflammation. Diagnosis can be difficult and is based on a combination of symptoms and laboratory tests. There are a number of other kinds of lupus erythematosus including discoid lupus erythematosus, neonatal lupus, and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus.There is no cure for SLE, but there are experimental and symptomatic treatments. Treatments may include NSAIDs, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants, hydroxychloroquine, and methotrexate. Although corticosteroids are rapidly effective, long-term use results in side effects. Alternative medicine has not been shown to affect the disease. Life expectancy is lower among people with SLE, but with modern treatment, 80-90% of patients can have a normal life span. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. While women with lupus have higher risk pregnancies, most are successful.Rate of SLE varies between countries from 20 to 70 per 100,000. Women of childbearing age are affected about nine times more often than men. While it most commonly begins between the ages of 15 and 45, a wide range of ages can be affected. Those of African, Caribbean, and Chinese descent are at higher risk than those of European descent. Rates of disease in the developing world are unclear",tell me the most common cause of death in women with lupus?,The most common cause of death of women  with lupus is   cardiovascular disease
125,126,paraphrased,"Lupus, technically known as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue in many parts of the body. Symptoms vary among people and may be mild to severe. Common symptoms include painful and swollen joints, fever, chest pain, hair loss, mouth ulcers, swollen lymph nodes, feeling tired, and a red rash which is most commonly on the face. Often there are periods of illness, called flares, and periods of remission during which there are few symptoms.The cause of SLE is not clear. It is thought to involve a combination of genetics and environmental factors. Among identical twins, if one is affected there is a 24% chance the other one will also develop the disease. Female sex hormones, sunlight, smoking, vitamin D deficiency, and certain infections are also believed to increase a person's risk. The mechanism involves an immune response by autoantibodies against a person's own tissues. These are most commonly anti-nuclear antibodies and they result in inflammation. Diagnosis can be difficult and is based on a combination of symptoms and laboratory tests. There are a number of other kinds of lupus erythematosus including discoid lupus erythematosus, neonatal lupus, and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus.There is no cure for SLE, but there are experimental and symptomatic treatments. Treatments may include NSAIDs, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants, hydroxychloroquine, and methotrexate. Although corticosteroids are rapidly effective, long-term use results in side effects. Alternative medicine has not been shown to affect the disease. Life expectancy is lower among people with SLE, but with modern treatment, 80-90% of patients can have a normal life span. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. While women with lupus have higher risk pregnancies, most are successful.Rate of SLE varies between countries from 20 to 70 per 100,000. Women of childbearing age are affected about nine times more often than men. While it most commonly begins between the ages of 15 and 45, a wide range of ages can be affected. Those of African, Caribbean, and Chinese descent are at higher risk than those of European descent. Rates of disease in the developing world are unclear",tell me the most common cause of death for women with lupus?,The most common cause of death of women  with lupus is   cardiovascular disease
126,127,paraphrased,"Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (American English) or tumours of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (British English) are tumors that affect the blood, bone marrow, lymph, and lymphatic system. Because these tissues are all intimately connected through both the circulatory system and the immune system, a disease affecting one will often affect the others as well, making aplasia, myeloproliferation and lymphoproliferation (and thus the leukemias and the lymphomas) closely related and often overlapping problems.\nWhile uncommon in solid tumors, chromosomal translocations are a common cause of these diseases. This commonly leads to a different approach in diagnosis and treatment of hematological malignancies.\nHematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms (\""cancer\""), and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and/or oncology.  In some centers \""hematology/oncology\"" is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions (there are also surgical and radiation oncologists).  Not all hematological disorders are malignant (\""cancerous\""); these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist.\nHematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages:  myeloid and lymphoid cell lines.  The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes, erythrocytes, thrombocytes, macrophages and mast cells; the lymphoid cell line produces B, T, NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias, and myeloma are from the lymphoid line, while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin.\nA subgroup of them are more severe and are known as haematological malignancies (British English)/hematological malignancies (American English) or blood cancer. They may also be referred to as liquid tumors",tell me the typical cause of leukemia and lymphoma?,The common cause of leukemias and lymphomas is chromosomal translocations
127,128,paraphrased,"Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (American English) or tumours of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (British English) are tumors that affect the blood, bone marrow, lymph, and lymphatic system. Because these tissues are all intimately connected through both the circulatory system and the immune system, a disease affecting one will often affect the others as well, making aplasia, myeloproliferation and lymphoproliferation (and thus the leukemias and the lymphomas) closely related and often overlapping problems.\nWhile uncommon in solid tumors, chromosomal translocations are a common cause of these diseases. This commonly leads to a different approach in diagnosis and treatment of hematological malignancies.\nHematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms (\""cancer\""), and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and/or oncology.  In some centers \""hematology/oncology\"" is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions (there are also surgical and radiation oncologists).  Not all hematological disorders are malignant (\""cancerous\""); these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist.\nHematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages:  myeloid and lymphoid cell lines.  The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes, erythrocytes, thrombocytes, macrophages and mast cells; the lymphoid cell line produces B, T, NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias, and myeloma are from the lymphoid line, while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin.\nA subgroup of them are more severe and are known as haematological malignancies (British English)/hematological malignancies (American English) or blood cancer. They may also be referred to as liquid tumors",what do i mean by malignant neoplasms?,Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms
128,129,paraphrased,"Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (American English) or tumours of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (British English) are tumors that affect the blood, bone marrow, lymph, and lymphatic system. Because these tissues are all intimately connected through both the circulatory system and the immune system, a disease affecting one will often affect the others as well, making aplasia, myeloproliferation and lymphoproliferation (and thus the leukemias and the lymphomas) closely related and often overlapping problems.\nWhile uncommon in solid tumors, chromosomal translocations are a common cause of these diseases. This commonly leads to a different approach in diagnosis and treatment of hematological malignancies.\nHematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms (\""cancer\""), and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and/or oncology.  In some centers \""hematology/oncology\"" is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions (there are also surgical and radiation oncologists).  Not all hematological disorders are malignant (\""cancerous\""); these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist.\nHematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages:  myeloid and lymphoid cell lines.  The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes, erythrocytes, thrombocytes, macrophages and mast cells; the lymphoid cell line produces B, T, NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias, and myeloma are from the lymphoid line, while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin.\nA subgroup of them are more severe and are known as haematological malignancies (British English)/hematological malignancies (American English) or blood cancer. They may also be referred to as liquid tumors",what is malignant neoplasm?,Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms
129,130,paraphrased,"Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (American English) or tumours of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (British English) are tumors that affect the blood, bone marrow, lymph, and lymphatic system. Because these tissues are all intimately connected through both the circulatory system and the immune system, a disease affecting one will often affect the others as well, making aplasia, myeloproliferation and lymphoproliferation (and thus the leukemias and the lymphomas) closely related and often overlapping problems.\nWhile uncommon in solid tumors, chromosomal translocations are a common cause of these diseases. This commonly leads to a different approach in diagnosis and treatment of hematological malignancies.\nHematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms (\""cancer\""), and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and/or oncology.  In some centers \""hematology/oncology\"" is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions (there are also surgical and radiation oncologists).  Not all hematological disorders are malignant (\""cancerous\""); these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist.\nHematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages:  myeloid and lymphoid cell lines.  The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes, erythrocytes, thrombocytes, macrophages and mast cells; the lymphoid cell line produces B, T, NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias, and myeloma are from the lymphoid line, while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin.\nA subgroup of them are more severe and are known as haematological malignancies (British English)/hematological malignancies (American English) or blood cancer. They may also be referred to as liquid tumors",what is a malignant neoplasm?,Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms
130,131,paraphrased,"Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (American English) or tumours of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (British English) are tumors that affect the blood, bone marrow, lymph, and lymphatic system. Because these tissues are all intimately connected through both the circulatory system and the immune system, a disease affecting one will often affect the others as well, making aplasia, myeloproliferation and lymphoproliferation (and thus the leukemias and the lymphomas) closely related and often overlapping problems.\nWhile uncommon in solid tumors, chromosomal translocations are a common cause of these diseases. This commonly leads to a different approach in diagnosis and treatment of hematological malignancies.\nHematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms (\""cancer\""), and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and/or oncology.  In some centers \""hematology/oncology\"" is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions (there are also surgical and radiation oncologists).  Not all hematological disorders are malignant (\""cancerous\""); these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist.\nHematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages:  myeloid and lymphoid cell lines.  The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes, erythrocytes, thrombocytes, macrophages and mast cells; the lymphoid cell line produces B, T, NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias, and myeloma are from the lymphoid line, while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin.\nA subgroup of them are more severe and are known as haematological malignancies (British English)/hematological malignancies (American English) or blood cancer. They may also be referred to as liquid tumors",what is malignant neoplasms?,Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms
131,132,paraphrased,"Tumors of the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (American English) or tumours of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues (British English) are tumors that affect the blood, bone marrow, lymph, and lymphatic system. Because these tissues are all intimately connected through both the circulatory system and the immune system, a disease affecting one will often affect the others as well, making aplasia, myeloproliferation and lymphoproliferation (and thus the leukemias and the lymphomas) closely related and often overlapping problems.\nWhile uncommon in solid tumors, chromosomal translocations are a common cause of these diseases. This commonly leads to a different approach in diagnosis and treatment of hematological malignancies.\nHematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms (\""cancer\""), and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and/or oncology.  In some centers \""hematology/oncology\"" is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions (there are also surgical and radiation oncologists).  Not all hematological disorders are malignant (\""cancerous\""); these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist.\nHematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages:  myeloid and lymphoid cell lines.  The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes, erythrocytes, thrombocytes, macrophages and mast cells; the lymphoid cell line produces B, T, NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas, lymphocytic leukemias, and myeloma are from the lymphoid line, while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin.\nA subgroup of them are more severe and are known as haematological malignancies (British English)/hematological malignancies (American English) or blood cancer. They may also be referred to as liquid tumors",what are malignant neoplasms?,Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms
132,133,paraphrased,"Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by an abnormal accumulation of surfactant-derived lipoprotein compounds within the alveoli of the lung. The accumulated substances interfere with the normal gas exchange and expansion of the lungs, ultimately leading to difficulty breathing and a predisposition to developing lung infections. The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic) causes, although the most common cause is a primary autoimmune condition in an individual.",What is the most common cause of PAP in an individual?,"The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic)"
133,134,paraphrased,"Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by an abnormal accumulation of surfactant-derived lipoprotein compounds within the alveoli of the lung. The accumulated substances interfere with the normal gas exchange and expansion of the lungs, ultimately leading to difficulty breathing and a predisposition to developing lung infections. The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic) causes, although the most common cause is a primary autoimmune condition in an individual.",is there another type of pap that can be hereditary or not?,Another type for hereditary PAP is autoimmune PAP
134,135,paraphrased,"Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by an abnormal accumulation of surfactant-derived lipoprotein compounds within the alveoli of the lung. The accumulated substances interfere with the normal gas exchange and expansion of the lungs, ultimately leading to difficulty breathing and a predisposition to developing lung infections. The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic) causes, although the most common cause is a primary autoimmune condition in an individual.",tell me the different type of hereditary pap?,Another type for hereditary PAP is autoimmune PAP
135,136,paraphrased,"Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by an abnormal accumulation of surfactant-derived lipoprotein compounds within the alveoli of the lung. The accumulated substances interfere with the normal gas exchange and expansion of the lungs, ultimately leading to difficulty breathing and a predisposition to developing lung infections. The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic) causes, although the most common cause is a primary autoimmune condition in an individual.",tell me the other type of hereditary pap?,Another type for hereditary PAP is autoimmune PAP
136,137,paraphrased,"Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by an abnormal accumulation of surfactant-derived lipoprotein compounds within the alveoli of the lung. The accumulated substances interfere with the normal gas exchange and expansion of the lungs, ultimately leading to difficulty breathing and a predisposition to developing lung infections. The causes of PAP may be grouped into primary (autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary (multiple diseases), and congenital (multiple diseases, usually genetic) causes, although the most common cause is a primary autoimmune condition in an individual.",what is another type of hereditary pap?,Another type for hereditary PAP is autoimmune PAP
137,138,paraphrased,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli. When evident clinically, the condition is usually massive. The onset of pulmonary hemorrhage is characterized by a cough productive of blood (hemoptysis) and worsening of oxygenation leading to cyanosis. Treatment should be immediate and should include tracheal suction, oxygen, positive pressure ventilation, and correction of underlying abnormalities such as disorders of coagulation. A blood transfusion may be necessary",tell me the meaning of pulmonary haemorrhagic disease?,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli"
138,139,paraphrased,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli. When evident clinically, the condition is usually massive. The onset of pulmonary hemorrhage is characterized by a cough productive of blood (hemoptysis) and worsening of oxygenation leading to cyanosis. Treatment should be immediate and should include tracheal suction, oxygen, positive pressure ventilation, and correction of underlying abnormalities such as disorders of coagulation. A blood transfusion may be necessary",tell me the pulmonary haemorrhagic condition?,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli"
139,140,paraphrased,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli. When evident clinically, the condition is usually massive. The onset of pulmonary hemorrhage is characterized by a cough productive of blood (hemoptysis) and worsening of oxygenation leading to cyanosis. Treatment should be immediate and should include tracheal suction, oxygen, positive pressure ventilation, and correction of underlying abnormalities such as disorders of coagulation. A blood transfusion may be necessary",what are pulmonary haemorrhagic conditions?,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli"
140,141,paraphrased,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli. When evident clinically, the condition is usually massive. The onset of pulmonary hemorrhage is characterized by a cough productive of blood (hemoptysis) and worsening of oxygenation leading to cyanosis. Treatment should be immediate and should include tracheal suction, oxygen, positive pressure ventilation, and correction of underlying abnormalities such as disorders of coagulation. A blood transfusion may be necessary",what is a pulmonary hemorrhagic condition?,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli"
141,142,paraphrased,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli. When evident clinically, the condition is usually massive. The onset of pulmonary hemorrhage is characterized by a cough productive of blood (hemoptysis) and worsening of oxygenation leading to cyanosis. Treatment should be immediate and should include tracheal suction, oxygen, positive pressure ventilation, and correction of underlying abnormalities such as disorders of coagulation. A blood transfusion may be necessary",what is a pulmonary haemorrhagic condition?,"Pulmonary hemorrhage (or pulmonary haemorrhage) is an acute bleeding from the lung, from the upper respiratory tract and the trachea, and the pulmonary alveoli"
142,143,paraphrased,"Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a form of Still's disease, a rare systemic autoinflammatory disease characterized by the classic triad of fevers, joint pain, and a distinctive salmon-colored bumpy rash. The disease is considered a diagnosis of exclusion. Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with this disorder. AOSD may present in a similar manner to other inflammatory diseases and to autoimmune diseases, which must be ruled out before making the diagnosis.\nPrognosis is usually favorable but manifestations of the disease affecting the lungs, heart, or kidneys may occasionally cause severe life-threatening complications. It is treated first with corticosteroids such as prednisone. Medications that block the action of interleukin-1, such as anakinra, can be effective treatments when standard steroid treatments are insufficient.Obvious similarities exist with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (also known as \""juvenile-onset Still's disease\""), and there is some evidence that the two conditions are closely related",what proteins may be a problem with aosd?,Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with AOSD
143,144,paraphrased,"Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a form of Still's disease, a rare systemic autoinflammatory disease characterized by the classic triad of fevers, joint pain, and a distinctive salmon-colored bumpy rash. The disease is considered a diagnosis of exclusion. Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with this disorder. AOSD may present in a similar manner to other inflammatory diseases and to autoimmune diseases, which must be ruled out before making the diagnosis.\nPrognosis is usually favorable but manifestations of the disease affecting the lungs, heart, or kidneys may occasionally cause severe life-threatening complications. It is treated first with corticosteroids such as prednisone. Medications that block the action of interleukin-1, such as anakinra, can be effective treatments when standard steroid treatments are insufficient.Obvious similarities exist with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (also known as \""juvenile-onset Still's disease\""), and there is some evidence that the two conditions are closely related",list the protein that may be elevated in aosd?,Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with AOSD
144,145,paraphrased,"Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a form of Still's disease, a rare systemic autoinflammatory disease characterized by the classic triad of fevers, joint pain, and a distinctive salmon-colored bumpy rash. The disease is considered a diagnosis of exclusion. Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with this disorder. AOSD may present in a similar manner to other inflammatory diseases and to autoimmune diseases, which must be ruled out before making the diagnosis.\nPrognosis is usually favorable but manifestations of the disease affecting the lungs, heart, or kidneys may occasionally cause severe life-threatening complications. It is treated first with corticosteroids such as prednisone. Medications that block the action of interleukin-1, such as anakinra, can be effective treatments when standard steroid treatments are insufficient.Obvious similarities exist with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (also known as \""juvenile-onset Still's disease\""), and there is some evidence that the two conditions are closely related",tell me the protein that may be elevated with aosd?,Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with AOSD
145,146,paraphrased,"Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a form of Still's disease, a rare systemic autoinflammatory disease characterized by the classic triad of fevers, joint pain, and a distinctive salmon-colored bumpy rash. The disease is considered a diagnosis of exclusion. Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with this disorder. AOSD may present in a similar manner to other inflammatory diseases and to autoimmune diseases, which must be ruled out before making the diagnosis.\nPrognosis is usually favorable but manifestations of the disease affecting the lungs, heart, or kidneys may occasionally cause severe life-threatening complications. It is treated first with corticosteroids such as prednisone. Medications that block the action of interleukin-1, such as anakinra, can be effective treatments when standard steroid treatments are insufficient.Obvious similarities exist with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (also known as \""juvenile-onset Still's disease\""), and there is some evidence that the two conditions are closely related",what protein could be elevated with aosd?,Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with AOSD
146,147,paraphrased,"Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is a form of Still's disease, a rare systemic autoinflammatory disease characterized by the classic triad of fevers, joint pain, and a distinctive salmon-colored bumpy rash. The disease is considered a diagnosis of exclusion. Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with this disorder. AOSD may present in a similar manner to other inflammatory diseases and to autoimmune diseases, which must be ruled out before making the diagnosis.\nPrognosis is usually favorable but manifestations of the disease affecting the lungs, heart, or kidneys may occasionally cause severe life-threatening complications. It is treated first with corticosteroids such as prednisone. Medications that block the action of interleukin-1, such as anakinra, can be effective treatments when standard steroid treatments are insufficient.Obvious similarities exist with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (also known as \""juvenile-onset Still's disease\""), and there is some evidence that the two conditions are closely related",what proteins may be elevated with aosd?,Levels of the iron-binding protein ferritin may be extremely elevated with AOSD
147,148,paraphrased,"Lichen planus (LP) is a chronic inflammatory and immune-mediated disease that affects the skin, nails, hair, and mucous membranes. It is not an actual lichen, and is only named that because it looks like one. It is characterized by polygonal, flat-topped, violaceous papules and plaques with overlying, reticulated, fine white scale (Wickham's striae), commonly affecting dorsal hands, flexural wrists and forearms, trunk, anterior lower legs and oral mucosa. The hue may be gray-brown in people with darker skin. Although there is a broad clinical range of LP manifestations, the skin and oral cavity remain as the major sites of involvement. The cause is unknown, but it is thought to be the result of an autoimmune process with an unknown initial trigger. There is no cure, but many different medications and procedures have been used in efforts to control the symptoms.\nThe term lichenoid reaction (lichenoid eruption or lichenoid lesion) refers to a lesion of similar or identical histopathologic and clinical appearance to lichen planus (i.e., an area which resembles lichen planus, both to the naked eye and under a microscope). Sometimes dental materials or certain medications can cause a lichenoid reaction. They can also occur in association with graft versus host disease",tell me the term lichenoid eruption?,The term lichenoid reaction (lichenoid eruption or lichenoid lesion) refers to a lesion of similar or identical histopathologic
148,149,paraphrased,"Lichen planus (LP) is a chronic inflammatory and immune-mediated disease that affects the skin, nails, hair, and mucous membranes. It is not an actual lichen, and is only named that because it looks like one. It is characterized by polygonal, flat-topped, violaceous papules and plaques with overlying, reticulated, fine white scale (Wickham's striae), commonly affecting dorsal hands, flexural wrists and forearms, trunk, anterior lower legs and oral mucosa. The hue may be gray-brown in people with darker skin. Although there is a broad clinical range of LP manifestations, the skin and oral cavity remain as the major sites of involvement. The cause is unknown, but it is thought to be the result of an autoimmune process with an unknown initial trigger. There is no cure, but many different medications and procedures have been used in efforts to control the symptoms.\nThe term lichenoid reaction (lichenoid eruption or lichenoid lesion) refers to a lesion of similar or identical histopathologic and clinical appearance to lichen planus (i.e., an area which resembles lichen planus, both to the naked eye and under a microscope). Sometimes dental materials or certain medications can cause a lichenoid reaction. They can also occur in association with graft versus host disease",tell me the term for lichenoid eruptions?,The term lichenoid reaction (lichenoid eruption or lichenoid lesion) refers to a lesion of similar or identical histopathologic
149,150,paraphrased,"Perinatal asphyxia (also known as neonatal asphyxia or birth asphyxia) is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to a newborn infant that lasts long enough during the birth process to cause physical harm, usually to the brain. It is also the inability to establish and sustain adequate or spontaneous respiration upon delivery of the newborn. It remains a serious condition which causes significant mortality and morbidity. It is an emergency condition and requires adequate and quick resuscitation measures. Perinatal asphyxia is also an oxygen deficit from the 28th week of gestation to the first seven days following delivery. It is also an insult to the fetus or newborn due to lack of oxygen or lack of perfusion to various organs and may be associated with a lack of ventilation. In accordance with WHO, perinatal asphyxia is characterised by: profound metabolic acidosis, with a pH less than 7.20 on umbilical cord arterial blood sample, persistence of an APGAR score of 3 at the 5th minute,                                                           clinical neurologic sequelae in the immediate neonatal period, or evidence of multiorgan system dysfunction in the immediate neonatal period. Hypoxic damage can occur to most of the infant's organs (heart, lungs, liver, gut, kidneys), but brain damage is of most concern and perhaps the least likely to quickly or completely heal. In more pronounced cases, an infant will survive, but with damage to the brain manifested as either mental, such as developmental delay or intellectual disability, or physical, such as spasticity.\nIt results most commonly from antepartum causes like a drop in maternal blood pressure or some other substantial interference with blood flow to the infant's brain during delivery. This can occur due to inadequate circulation or perfusion, impaired respiratory effort, or inadequate ventilation. Perinatal asphyxia happens in 2 to 10 per 1000 newborns that are born at term, and more for those that are born prematurely. WHO estimates that 4 million neonatal deaths occur yearly due to birth asphyxia, representing 38% of deaths of children under 5 years of age.Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births. An infant with severe perinatal asphyxia usually has poor color (cyanosis), perfusion, responsiveness, muscle tone, and respiratory effort, as reflected in a low 5 minute Apgar score. Extreme degrees of asphyxia can cause cardiac arrest and death. If resuscitation is successful, the infant is usually transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit.\nThere has long been a scientific debate over whether newborn infants with asphyxia should be resuscitated with 100% oxygen or normal air. It has been demonstrated that high concentrations of oxygen lead to generation of oxygen free radicals, which have a role in reperfusion injury after asphyxia. Research by Ola Didrik Saugstad and others led to new international guidelines on newborn resuscitation in 2010, recommending the use of normal air instead of 100% oxygen.There is considerable controversy over the diagnosis of birth asphyxia due to medicolegal reasons. Because of its lack of precision, the term is eschewed in modern obstetrics.",what is perinatal asphyxia?,Perinatal asphyxia also known as neonatal asphyxia'
150,151,paraphrased,"Perinatal asphyxia (also known as neonatal asphyxia or birth asphyxia) is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to a newborn infant that lasts long enough during the birth process to cause physical harm, usually to the brain. It is also the inability to establish and sustain adequate or spontaneous respiration upon delivery of the newborn. It remains a serious condition which causes significant mortality and morbidity. It is an emergency condition and requires adequate and quick resuscitation measures. Perinatal asphyxia is also an oxygen deficit from the 28th week of gestation to the first seven days following delivery. It is also an insult to the fetus or newborn due to lack of oxygen or lack of perfusion to various organs and may be associated with a lack of ventilation. In accordance with WHO, perinatal asphyxia is characterised by: profound metabolic acidosis, with a pH less than 7.20 on umbilical cord arterial blood sample, persistence of an APGAR score of 3 at the 5th minute,                                                           clinical neurologic sequelae in the immediate neonatal period, or evidence of multiorgan system dysfunction in the immediate neonatal period. Hypoxic damage can occur to most of the infant's organs (heart, lungs, liver, gut, kidneys), but brain damage is of most concern and perhaps the least likely to quickly or completely heal. In more pronounced cases, an infant will survive, but with damage to the brain manifested as either mental, such as developmental delay or intellectual disability, or physical, such as spasticity.\nIt results most commonly from antepartum causes like a drop in maternal blood pressure or some other substantial interference with blood flow to the infant's brain during delivery. This can occur due to inadequate circulation or perfusion, impaired respiratory effort, or inadequate ventilation. Perinatal asphyxia happens in 2 to 10 per 1000 newborns that are born at term, and more for those that are born prematurely. WHO estimates that 4 million neonatal deaths occur yearly due to birth asphyxia, representing 38% of deaths of children under 5 years of age.Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births. An infant with severe perinatal asphyxia usually has poor color (cyanosis), perfusion, responsiveness, muscle tone, and respiratory effort, as reflected in a low 5 minute Apgar score. Extreme degrees of asphyxia can cause cardiac arrest and death. If resuscitation is successful, the infant is usually transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit.\nThere has long been a scientific debate over whether newborn infants with asphyxia should be resuscitated with 100% oxygen or normal air. It has been demonstrated that high concentrations of oxygen lead to generation of oxygen free radicals, which have a role in reperfusion injury after asphyxia. Research by Ola Didrik Saugstad and others led to new international guidelines on newborn resuscitation in 2010, recommending the use of normal air instead of 100% oxygen.There is considerable controversy over the diagnosis of birth asphyxia due to medicolegal reasons. Because of its lack of precision, the term is eschewed in modern obstetrics.",what is perinatal asphyxia known as?,Perinatal asphyxia also known as neonatal asphyxia'
151,152,paraphrased,"Perinatal asphyxia (also known as neonatal asphyxia or birth asphyxia) is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to a newborn infant that lasts long enough during the birth process to cause physical harm, usually to the brain. It is also the inability to establish and sustain adequate or spontaneous respiration upon delivery of the newborn. It remains a serious condition which causes significant mortality and morbidity. It is an emergency condition and requires adequate and quick resuscitation measures. Perinatal asphyxia is also an oxygen deficit from the 28th week of gestation to the first seven days following delivery. It is also an insult to the fetus or newborn due to lack of oxygen or lack of perfusion to various organs and may be associated with a lack of ventilation. In accordance with WHO, perinatal asphyxia is characterised by: profound metabolic acidosis, with a pH less than 7.20 on umbilical cord arterial blood sample, persistence of an APGAR score of 3 at the 5th minute,                                                           clinical neurologic sequelae in the immediate neonatal period, or evidence of multiorgan system dysfunction in the immediate neonatal period. Hypoxic damage can occur to most of the infant's organs (heart, lungs, liver, gut, kidneys), but brain damage is of most concern and perhaps the least likely to quickly or completely heal. In more pronounced cases, an infant will survive, but with damage to the brain manifested as either mental, such as developmental delay or intellectual disability, or physical, such as spasticity.\nIt results most commonly from antepartum causes like a drop in maternal blood pressure or some other substantial interference with blood flow to the infant's brain during delivery. This can occur due to inadequate circulation or perfusion, impaired respiratory effort, or inadequate ventilation. Perinatal asphyxia happens in 2 to 10 per 1000 newborns that are born at term, and more for those that are born prematurely. WHO estimates that 4 million neonatal deaths occur yearly due to birth asphyxia, representing 38% of deaths of children under 5 years of age.Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births. An infant with severe perinatal asphyxia usually has poor color (cyanosis), perfusion, responsiveness, muscle tone, and respiratory effort, as reflected in a low 5 minute Apgar score. Extreme degrees of asphyxia can cause cardiac arrest and death. If resuscitation is successful, the infant is usually transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit.\nThere has long been a scientific debate over whether newborn infants with asphyxia should be resuscitated with 100% oxygen or normal air. It has been demonstrated that high concentrations of oxygen lead to generation of oxygen free radicals, which have a role in reperfusion injury after asphyxia. Research by Ola Didrik Saugstad and others led to new international guidelines on newborn resuscitation in 2010, recommending the use of normal air instead of 100% oxygen.There is considerable controversy over the diagnosis of birth asphyxia due to medicolegal reasons. Because of its lack of precision, the term is eschewed in modern obstetrics.",tell me the mechanism of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy?,"Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births'"
152,153,paraphrased,"Perinatal asphyxia (also known as neonatal asphyxia or birth asphyxia) is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to a newborn infant that lasts long enough during the birth process to cause physical harm, usually to the brain. It is also the inability to establish and sustain adequate or spontaneous respiration upon delivery of the newborn. It remains a serious condition which causes significant mortality and morbidity. It is an emergency condition and requires adequate and quick resuscitation measures. Perinatal asphyxia is also an oxygen deficit from the 28th week of gestation to the first seven days following delivery. It is also an insult to the fetus or newborn due to lack of oxygen or lack of perfusion to various organs and may be associated with a lack of ventilation. In accordance with WHO, perinatal asphyxia is characterised by: profound metabolic acidosis, with a pH less than 7.20 on umbilical cord arterial blood sample, persistence of an APGAR score of 3 at the 5th minute,                                                           clinical neurologic sequelae in the immediate neonatal period, or evidence of multiorgan system dysfunction in the immediate neonatal period. Hypoxic damage can occur to most of the infant's organs (heart, lungs, liver, gut, kidneys), but brain damage is of most concern and perhaps the least likely to quickly or completely heal. In more pronounced cases, an infant will survive, but with damage to the brain manifested as either mental, such as developmental delay or intellectual disability, or physical, such as spasticity.\nIt results most commonly from antepartum causes like a drop in maternal blood pressure or some other substantial interference with blood flow to the infant's brain during delivery. This can occur due to inadequate circulation or perfusion, impaired respiratory effort, or inadequate ventilation. Perinatal asphyxia happens in 2 to 10 per 1000 newborns that are born at term, and more for those that are born prematurely. WHO estimates that 4 million neonatal deaths occur yearly due to birth asphyxia, representing 38% of deaths of children under 5 years of age.Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births. An infant with severe perinatal asphyxia usually has poor color (cyanosis), perfusion, responsiveness, muscle tone, and respiratory effort, as reflected in a low 5 minute Apgar score. Extreme degrees of asphyxia can cause cardiac arrest and death. If resuscitation is successful, the infant is usually transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit.\nThere has long been a scientific debate over whether newborn infants with asphyxia should be resuscitated with 100% oxygen or normal air. It has been demonstrated that high concentrations of oxygen lead to generation of oxygen free radicals, which have a role in reperfusion injury after asphyxia. Research by Ola Didrik Saugstad and others led to new international guidelines on newborn resuscitation in 2010, recommending the use of normal air instead of 100% oxygen.There is considerable controversy over the diagnosis of birth asphyxia due to medicolegal reasons. Because of its lack of precision, the term is eschewed in modern obstetrics.",what causes hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy?,"Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births'"
153,154,paraphrased,"Perinatal asphyxia (also known as neonatal asphyxia or birth asphyxia) is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to a newborn infant that lasts long enough during the birth process to cause physical harm, usually to the brain. It is also the inability to establish and sustain adequate or spontaneous respiration upon delivery of the newborn. It remains a serious condition which causes significant mortality and morbidity. It is an emergency condition and requires adequate and quick resuscitation measures. Perinatal asphyxia is also an oxygen deficit from the 28th week of gestation to the first seven days following delivery. It is also an insult to the fetus or newborn due to lack of oxygen or lack of perfusion to various organs and may be associated with a lack of ventilation. In accordance with WHO, perinatal asphyxia is characterised by: profound metabolic acidosis, with a pH less than 7.20 on umbilical cord arterial blood sample, persistence of an APGAR score of 3 at the 5th minute,                                                           clinical neurologic sequelae in the immediate neonatal period, or evidence of multiorgan system dysfunction in the immediate neonatal period. Hypoxic damage can occur to most of the infant's organs (heart, lungs, liver, gut, kidneys), but brain damage is of most concern and perhaps the least likely to quickly or completely heal. In more pronounced cases, an infant will survive, but with damage to the brain manifested as either mental, such as developmental delay or intellectual disability, or physical, such as spasticity.\nIt results most commonly from antepartum causes like a drop in maternal blood pressure or some other substantial interference with blood flow to the infant's brain during delivery. This can occur due to inadequate circulation or perfusion, impaired respiratory effort, or inadequate ventilation. Perinatal asphyxia happens in 2 to 10 per 1000 newborns that are born at term, and more for those that are born prematurely. WHO estimates that 4 million neonatal deaths occur yearly due to birth asphyxia, representing 38% of deaths of children under 5 years of age.Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births. An infant with severe perinatal asphyxia usually has poor color (cyanosis), perfusion, responsiveness, muscle tone, and respiratory effort, as reflected in a low 5 minute Apgar score. Extreme degrees of asphyxia can cause cardiac arrest and death. If resuscitation is successful, the infant is usually transferred to a neonatal intensive care unit.\nThere has long been a scientific debate over whether newborn infants with asphyxia should be resuscitated with 100% oxygen or normal air. It has been demonstrated that high concentrations of oxygen lead to generation of oxygen free radicals, which have a role in reperfusion injury after asphyxia. Research by Ola Didrik Saugstad and others led to new international guidelines on newborn resuscitation in 2010, recommending the use of normal air instead of 100% oxygen.There is considerable controversy over the diagnosis of birth asphyxia due to medicolegal reasons. Because of its lack of precision, the term is eschewed in modern obstetrics.",tell me the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy?,"Perinatal asphyxia can be the cause of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or intraventricular hemorrhage, especially in preterm births'"
154,155,paraphrased,"Atherosclerosis is a pattern of the disease arteriosclerosis in which the wall of the artery develops abnormalities, called lesions. These lesions may lead to narrowing due to the buildup of atheromatous plaque. At onset there are usually no symptoms, but if they develop, symptoms generally begin around middle age. When severe, it can result in coronary artery disease, stroke, peripheral artery disease, or kidney problems, depending on which arteries are affected.The exact cause is not known and is proposed to be multifactorial. Risk factors include abnormal cholesterol levels, elevated levels of inflammatory markers, high blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, obesity, family history, genetic, and an unhealthy diet. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. The narrowing of arteries limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to parts of the body. Diagnosis is based upon a physical exam, electrocardiogram, and exercise stress test, among others.Prevention is generally by eating a healthy diet, exercising, not smoking, and maintaining a normal weight. Treatment of established disease may include medications to lower cholesterol such as statins, blood pressure medication, or medications that decrease clotting, such as aspirin. A number of procedures may also be carried out such as percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass graft, or carotid endarterectomy.Atherosclerosis generally starts when a person is young and worsens with age. Almost all people are affected to some degree by the age of 78",What is a medication that decreases clotting called?,The medication that decreases clotting is called aspirin
155,156,paraphrased,"The human body is made up of trillions of cells, each with a specific function. However, sometimes these cells can become abnormal and grow out of control, leading to the development of cancer.",tell me the diagnosis of a cancer?,Cancer is a disease characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells in the body.
156,157,paraphrased,"The human body is made up of trillions of cells, each with a specific function. However, sometimes these cells can become abnormal and grow out of control, leading to the development of cancer.",what  are cancers?,Cancer is a disease characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells in the body.
157,158,paraphrased,"The human body is made up of trillions of cells, each with a specific function. However, sometimes these cells can become abnormal and grow out of control, leading to the development of cancer.",what is cancer?,Cancer is a disease characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells in the body.
158,159,paraphrased,"Diabetes is a chronic disease that affects millions of people worldwide. It occurs when the body is unable to properly use and store glucose, leading to high blood sugar levels.",tell me the meaning of diabetes?,"Diabetes is a chronic disease that affects the body's ability to use and store glucose, resulting in high blood sugar levels."
159,160,paraphrased,"Diabetes is a chronic disease that affects millions of people worldwide. It occurs when the body is unable to properly use and store glucose, leading to high blood sugar levels.",what is diabetes?,"Diabetes is a chronic disease that affects the body's ability to use and store glucose, resulting in high blood sugar levels."
160,161,paraphrased,"The brain is a complex organ that controls many of the body's functions, including movement, sensation, and cognition. However, when the brain is damaged or injured, these functions can be impaired.",what happens if a brain gets injured?,"When the brain is damaged or injured, it can result in impairments to movement, sensation, and cognition, among other functions."
161,162,paraphrased,"The brain is a complex organ that controls many of the body's functions, including movement, sensation, and cognition. However, when the brain is damaged or injured, these functions can be impaired.",what happens to the brain when it is damaged and injured?,"When the brain is damaged or injured, it can result in impairments to movement, sensation, and cognition, among other functions."
162,163,paraphrased,"The brain is a complex organ that controls many of the body's functions, including movement, sensation, and cognition. However, when the brain is damaged or injured, these functions can be impaired.",what happens if the brain is injured?,"When the brain is damaged or injured, it can result in impairments to movement, sensation, and cognition, among other functions."
163,164,paraphrased,"The brain is a complex organ that controls many of the body's functions, including movement, sensation, and cognition. However, when the brain is damaged or injured, these functions can be impaired.",what happens when the brain is damaged?,"When the brain is damaged or injured, it can result in impairments to movement, sensation, and cognition, among other functions."
164,165,paraphrased,"The brain is a complex organ that controls many of the body's functions, including movement, sensation, and cognition. However, when the brain is damaged or injured, these functions can be impaired.",what happens if the brain is damaged or hurt?,"When the brain is damaged or injured, it can result in impairments to movement, sensation, and cognition, among other functions."
165,166,paraphrased,"Antibiotics are medications used to treat bacterial infections. However, the overuse and misuse of antibiotics can lead to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.",what are antibiotic resistance and how do we identify them?,"Antibiotic resistance occurs when bacteria adapt and become resistant to the effects of antibiotics, making it more difficult to treat bacterial infections."
166,167,paraphrased,"Antibiotics are medications used to treat bacterial infections. However, the overuse and misuse of antibiotics can lead to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.",tell me the antibiotic resistance and how can it be treated?,"Antibiotic resistance occurs when bacteria adapt and become resistant to the effects of antibiotics, making it more difficult to treat bacterial infections."
167,168,paraphrased,"Antibiotics are medications used to treat bacterial infections. However, the overuse and misuse of antibiotics can lead to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.",what does antibiotic resistance mean?,"Antibiotic resistance occurs when bacteria adapt and become resistant to the effects of antibiotics, making it more difficult to treat bacterial infections."
168,169,paraphrased,"Antibiotics are medications used to treat bacterial infections. However, the overuse and misuse of antibiotics can lead to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.",tell me the antibiotic resistance?,"Antibiotic resistance occurs when bacteria adapt and become resistant to the effects of antibiotics, making it more difficult to treat bacterial infections."
169,170,paraphrased,"Antibiotics are medications used to treat bacterial infections. However, the overuse and misuse of antibiotics can lead to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.",what is antibiotic resistance?,"Antibiotic resistance occurs when bacteria adapt and become resistant to the effects of antibiotics, making it more difficult to treat bacterial infections."
170,171,paraphrased,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what does it mean if the heart is weakened?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
171,172,paraphrased,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what happens when your heart is damaged?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
172,173,paraphrased,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what happens if the heart is damaged?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
173,174,paraphrased,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what happens when a heart is damaged?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
174,175,paraphrased,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what happens when the heart is damaged?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
175,176,paraphrased,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what happens when the heart is weakened?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
176,177,paraphrased,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what happens if a heart is damaged and weakened?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
177,178,paraphrased,"The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood throughout the body. However, when the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what happens when a heart is damaged and weak?,"When the heart is damaged or weakened, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including heart failure and arrhythmias."
178,179,paraphrased,"The respiratory system is responsible for breathing, which is essential for supplying oxygen to the body's cells. However, when the respiratory system is compromised, it can lead to difficulty breathing and other respiratory problems.",what are respiratory systems?,"The respiratory system is responsible for breathing and supplying oxygen to the body's cells, as well as removing carbon dioxide from the body."
179,180,paraphrased,"The respiratory system is responsible for breathing, which is essential for supplying oxygen to the body's cells. However, when the respiratory system is compromised, it can lead to difficulty breathing and other respiratory problems.",what is a respiratory system?,"The respiratory system is responsible for breathing and supplying oxygen to the body's cells, as well as removing carbon dioxide from the body."
180,181,paraphrased,"The immune system is responsible for protecting the body against infectious agents and other foreign invaders. However, when the immune system is compromised, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",tell me the immune system? what do it do?,"The immune system is responsible for protecting the body against infectious agents and other foreign invaders, as well as helping to repair damaged tissue."
181,182,paraphrased,"The immune system is responsible for protecting the body against infectious agents and other foreign invaders. However, when the immune system is compromised, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",tell me the immune system?,"The immune system is responsible for protecting the body against infectious agents and other foreign invaders, as well as helping to repair damaged tissue."
182,183,paraphrased,"The immune system is responsible for protecting the body against infectious agents and other foreign invaders. However, when the immune system is compromised, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what is an immune system?,"The immune system is responsible for protecting the body against infectious agents and other foreign invaders, as well as helping to repair damaged tissue."
183,184,paraphrased,"The liver is a vital organ that performs many important functions in the body, including filtering toxins from the blood and producing bile for digestion. However, when the liver is damaged or diseased, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",tell me the role of the liver?,"The liver performs many important functions in the body, including filtering toxins from the blood and producing bile for digestion."
184,185,paraphrased,"The liver is a vital organ that performs many important functions in the body, including filtering toxins from the blood and producing bile for digestion. However, when the liver is damaged or diseased, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what do a liver does?,"The liver performs many important functions in the body, including filtering toxins from the blood and producing bile for digestion."
185,186,paraphrased,"The liver is a vital organ that performs many important functions in the body, including filtering toxins from the blood and producing bile for digestion. However, when the liver is damaged or diseased, it can lead to a variety of health problems.",what do the liver do?,"The liver performs many important functions in the body, including filtering toxins from the blood and producing bile for digestion."
186,187,paraphrased,"The musculoskeletal system is responsible for movement and support of the body. However, when this system is compromised, it can lead to a variety of health problems, including pain and mobility issues.",tell me the musculoskeletal system?,"The musculoskeletal system is responsible for movement and support of the body, including the bones, muscles, and joints."
187,188,paraphrased,"Cancer is a broad term that refers to a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. There are many different types of cancer, and each type is classified based on the type of cell that is initially affected. Some common types of cancer include breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancer.",tell me the meaning of cancer?,Cancer is a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells.
188,189,paraphrased,"Cancer is a broad term that refers to a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. There are many different types of cancer, and each type is classified based on the type of cell that is initially affected. Some common types of cancer include breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancer.",tell me the cancer?,Cancer is a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells.
189,190,paraphrased,"Cancer is a broad term that refers to a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. There are many different types of cancer, and each type is classified based on the type of cell that is initially affected. Some common types of cancer include breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancer.",what are cancers?,Cancer is a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells.
190,191,paraphrased,"Cancer is a broad term that refers to a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. There are many different types of cancer, and each type is classified based on the type of cell that is initially affected. Some common types of cancer include breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancer.",what is cancer?,Cancer is a group of diseases characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells.
191,192,paraphrased,"Lung cancer is one of the most common types of cancer and is the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. It often has no symptoms in its early stages, making it difficult to detect. Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer, but exposure to secondhand smoke, radon gas, and other environmental factors can also increase the risk of developing the disease.",tell me the cause of lung cancer?,Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer.
192,193,paraphrased,"Lung cancer is one of the most common types of cancer and is the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. It often has no symptoms in its early stages, making it difficult to detect. Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer, but exposure to secondhand smoke, radon gas, and other environmental factors can also increase the risk of developing the disease.",show the leading causes of lung cancer?,Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer.
193,194,paraphrased,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the breast. It is the most common cancer among women worldwide, and the second most common cancer overall. Some of the risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen. Early detection through regular mammograms and self-exams can greatly increase the chances of successful treatment.",what's the risk of breast cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen."
194,195,paraphrased,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the breast. It is the most common cancer among women worldwide, and the second most common cancer overall. Some of the risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen. Early detection through regular mammograms and self-exams can greatly increase the chances of successful treatment.",show the risk factors for breast cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen."
195,196,paraphrased,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the breast. It is the most common cancer among women worldwide, and the second most common cancer overall. Some of the risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen. Early detection through regular mammograms and self-exams can greatly increase the chances of successful treatment.",list the risk factors for breast cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen."
196,197,paraphrased,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the breast. It is the most common cancer among women worldwide, and the second most common cancer overall. Some of the risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen. Early detection through regular mammograms and self-exams can greatly increase the chances of successful treatment.",what is risk factors for breast cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen."
197,198,paraphrased,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the breast. It is the most common cancer among women worldwide, and the second most common cancer overall. Some of the risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen. Early detection through regular mammograms and self-exams can greatly increase the chances of successful treatment.",list some risk factors for breast cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen."
198,199,paraphrased,"Breast cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the cells of the breast. It is the most common cancer among women worldwide, and the second most common cancer overall. Some of the risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen. Early detection through regular mammograms and self-exams can greatly increase the chances of successful treatment.",what are risk factors for breast cancer?,"Some risk factors for developing breast cancer include age, family history of the disease, and exposure to estrogen."
199,200,paraphrased,"Prostate cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the prostate gland, which is located just below the bladder in men. It is the second most common cancer among men worldwide, and is often slow-growing and may not cause any symptoms for many years. Some risk factors for developing prostate cancer include age, family history of the disease, and a diet high in red meat and saturated fat.",tell me the area of the prostate gland?,The prostate gland is located just below the bladder in men.
200,201,paraphrased,"Prostate cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the prostate gland, which is located just below the bladder in men. It is the second most common cancer among men worldwide, and is often slow-growing and may not cause any symptoms for many years. Some risk factors for developing prostate cancer include age, family history of the disease, and a diet high in red meat and saturated fat.",where is the prostate gland?,The prostate gland is located just below the bladder in men.
201,202,paraphrased,"Prostate cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the prostate gland, which is located just below the bladder in men. It is the second most common cancer among men worldwide, and is often slow-growing and may not cause any symptoms for many years. Some risk factors for developing prostate cancer include age, family history of the disease, and a diet high in red meat and saturated fat.",where is the prostate gland located?,The prostate gland is located just below the bladder in men.
